---
title: 1890-11-18 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-11-18-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[19]

## 11th General Meeting--November 18th 1890.

### 11th meeting 861 Garden St.; Names read; Letters of acceptance of honorary members; Paper--Franklin; Discussion; Meeting hour changed; Paper--Dorsey, Paper--Malloy.

The eleventh general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, November 18th at 4 o’clock, with the President in the chair. Members present about 39. The minutes of last meeting were read by Secretary,--also the names of proposed members, and letters of acceptance of honorary membership from Mrs. Alice Freeman Palmer and Miss Grace Denio Litchfield. The Treasurer of the Club [Christine Ladd-Franklin] read an article soon to be published in the 19th Century entitled “Intuition and Reason." Being a reply to Mrs. Grant Allen’s paper in the Forum on “Intuition."[^allen] After general discussion of the subject, the Club, by President’s suggestion, voted to change the hour of meeting, finally adopting 3.30 P.M. Papers were read by Miss M.V. [Marian V.] Dorsey] on “The Supremacy of the Individual or a Word for the Minority”, and by Miss [Louise] Malloy on “Women in the Professions[.]”

[^allen]: The British magazine _The Nineteenth Century,_ founded in 1877, was an important forum for English intellects and writers. In 1901, it changed its name to _The Nineteenth-Century and After_ and featured a cover logo with an old man on one side, and a young woman on the other—associating the magazine with the values of modern womanhood. _The Forum,_ in many ways, functioned as an American equivalent to _The Nineteenth Century._ Each issue featured a range of perspectives on a particular issue, functioning like Plato’s Symposium in print. Ladd-Franklin’s “Intuition and Reason” was published in _The Monist_ in January 1893; it does not appear to have been published in _The Nineteenth Century_ but given Ladd-Franklin’s remarks, may have been submitted there for consideration.

Meeting adjourned

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)