---
title: 1890-11-04 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-11-04-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[17]

## 9th General Meeting-- November 4th 1890.

### 9th meeting 861 Garden St.; “The Brownings” Committee; Poem--Dobbin; Paper--Grace; Poem--President; Voting upon changes in Constitution; Election Day; Salon Day; Club quorum; Members named; Recollections--Adams; Reminiscences--Tait.

The ninth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday afternoon, November 4th, 1890, at 861 Garden Street, with the President in the chair. Members present 23. The literary work of the meeting was under the auspices of Miss [Lydia] Crane, Chairman of the Committee on “The Brownings," and its general aim to present the non-admirable side of Robert Browning. After the reading of the minutes of the last general meeting by the Secretary, Mrs. Dobbin gave by request “The Poet and the Earth Worm.” Miss [Mary F.] Grace read “The Fall of Ulysses or A Student of Browning,” written by Charles Wright Willard. The President gave by request “A Purée aux Haricots noirs à la Browning” from “Francesca’s Fancies." By desire of the President, the Secretary read to the Club--to be voted upon--certain suggested alterations of the Constitution, as follows: Sec[tion] 1--To change the annual voting day for Officers from November 1 to the last business meeting day in May. Carried; Sec[tion] 2. To hold a Salon the last meeting day of each month instead of every other Tuesday. Carried; Sec[tion] 7. To add to the clause allowing Constitution to be changed by a two thirds vote of the members present at a meeting, the words “where 20 shall constitute a quorum." Carried. After nomination of new members by the Club, Miss [Elizabeth] Adams gave some personal recollections of Mrs. Browning’s funeral--so quiet, so beautiful! Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait read a portion of “The reminiscences of Mrs. Tait,” including Browning criticism of Bleak House [novel by Charles Dickens]. Mrs. [Theodore] Caskin suggested that some members of the Club might be able to give personal recollections of some of the Italian refugees. Proposed members’ names read. Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)