---
title: 1890-12-02 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-12-02-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[21]

## 12th General Meeting--December 2nd 1890.

### 12th meeting 861 Garden St.; Honorary member present; Poems--Cloud; Works presented

The twelfth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, December 2nd, 1890, at 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. About 30 members present, among whom was the honorary member Mrs. [Caroline "Danske"] Dandridge. The President stated that as nothing has been heard from Mrs. Stanley, there would be no Salon on Thursday, December 4th. After reading of minutes of last business meeting by Secretary, Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud read 2 poems. One was “The Garden Way." The President announced that Mrs. Dandridge had presented her works to the Club.

### Paper--Miller; Poem--Graham; Tale--De Profundis; Poems Dandridge; Letter--Cayley_

A paper was read by Mrs. John [Maria W.] Miller on Charles Kingsley, poet, clergyman, novelist. After conversation on the topic a poem was read by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham entitled “The King’s Message,[”] being a selection from her own works which she had presented to the Club.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton--2nd Vice President--read a tale called “De Profundis” written on Sidney Lanier’s poem “Music is Love, in search of a Word." Two poems written by Mrs. Dandridge were read by Miss Cloud and Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese--”The Dead Moon” and “The Angels’ Song."

After reading by the Secretary of Mrs. Cayley’s [Mrs. Arthur Cayley] letter accepting honorary membership, the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)