---
title: 1890-12-16 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-12-16-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[25]

## 14th General Meeting--December 16th 1890.

### 14th meeting 861 Garden St; Portrait given by Mrs. Graham; Women as Physicians; Paper--King

The fourteenth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street--Tuesday afternoon, December 16th about 3.30 o’clock with the President in chair, and about 45 persons present. After reading of minutes by Secretary, President announced that a portrait of Bayard Taylor had been presented to the Club by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham to whom warm thanks were tendered, a paper was read by Miss [Elizabeth T.] King on “The Medical Education of Women,” treating of the more recent development of the subject, of the advantage for study now given to women in many cities of the U.S., in many parts of Europe and in Canada and India, and of the necessity of co-education in many respects, for the sake of gaining needed self reliance.

### Paper--Bullock

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock’s paper was upon “The Attitude of the Medical Profession towards Women Physicians” saying that in story and history, women in ancient times were taught medicine in individual cases, and in the college of physicians in Egypt, and--after a shuffle--in Athens; that, in Italy, between 1300 and 1800 many women were noted in medicine; that they were absolutely discountenanced by Philadelphia Medical Society in 1858; only half taught and received in the amphitheatre with shouts and hisses in Chicago; but finally overcoming all difficulties until one eighth of Boston physicians are women, and there are two or more women doctors in nearly every Southern state, and many women assistants in charge of females in insane asylums, while Dr Alice Bennett in Norristown is the successful chief in command of the female wards.

### Paper--Hampton

A paper was read by Miss [Isabel] Hampton on “How Women Physicians are regarded by the Laity,” stating that,

[26]

although women are allowed to become doctors, neither men nor women like the profession to be adopted by members of their own families, that truly women in the past have not been fully qualified and must set up a higher standard--higher than men have set--that women have worked against women even more than men have done; and suggesting that women physicians are very much needed in the country, and that it would be better to close smaller schools and open large well fitted colleges.

### Paper--Dr. Hall

The next paper was by Dr Alice [T.] Hall, Chairman of Committee on “Women as Physicians” on “The Success of Women as Physicians." Dr Hall said that their financial success is good, average income being $2907.30 against $1500 for the average man physician, their ability may not yet be fully proved as women have not written much nor sought causes of disease, although they have invented some instruments, their authority and influence may be proved by power at least in the insane asylums, but whether her physical strength is sufficient has not yet been worked out. Women should be made supervisors of health.

### Motion; Magazine & room of our own.

Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent made a motion that these papers be given to the public, seconded by Mrs. Graham--who moved also that another paper be prepared on “What Women do in Medicine." 1st motion amended for reasons of economy by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] who proposed to give papers to an existing magazine. Carried. Dr Hall seconded by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton suggested that Dr [Kali Campbell] Hurd prepare the paper asked for by Mrs. Graham. Carried. Both matters entrusted to Dr Hall’s care. Mrs. Graham suggested that one day we may have a magazine and a room of our own, and stated that Mrs. Rosalie Baker had promised personal reminiscences of Howard Payne.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)