---
title: 1890-12-02 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-12-02-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[22]

## Board Meeting--December 2nd, 1890
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 22]

### Board meeting 861 Garden St.; Reports to press; 1500 postals

Meeting of Board of Management held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, December 2nd after general meeting of Club, President in chair--6 members present. Consultation on subject matter of meeting to be given to newspapers for publication--not definitely settled. Secretary’s request whether 1500 postals should be printed settled affirmatively.

### New members

Mrs. Wm Yardley [Alice Yardley], new member proposed by Mrs. [Alice Sauerwein] Lord and Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge. Mrs. Stockbridge suggested that Miss [Louisa Courtauld Osburne] Haughton cast vote for Board for new members--carried. Elected: Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, Mrs.  [Marguerite E.] Easter, Mrs. [H.M] Hurd and Miss Scott.

_Method of proposal of new members; New members--Miss Toulmin Smith

Suggested that in proposing new members their names and qualifications be given in writing to Committee with names of proposer and seconder. Miss [Elizabeth Cary] Nicholas proposed by Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan and Miss Corinne Jackson.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin elected--proposed by Mrs. Tiernan and others. Miss L. Toulmin Smith to be invited to next general meeting. Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)