---
title: 1890-10-28 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-10-28-salon.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

[16]

## 4th Salon--October 28th 1890.

### 4th Salon 861 Garden St.; Social meeting; Refreshments and tea served; Paper--Graham on John Howard Payne and poem; Poem--President, Mrs. Caskin; Committee list and officers circulated

The fourth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club and the first of autumn of 1890 was held on Tuesday October 28, at 861 Garden Street at 4 o’clock. About 50 members present including the President, Officers and Executive Committee. Meeting in great measure social so that the members might become known to one another. Light refreshments were served and tea tables presided over by Miss H. C. [Hester Crawford] Dorsey and Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, assisted by Misses [Katharine Pearson] Woods, [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, [Eveline Rieman] Early, [Saffie] Dorsey, [May Garrettson] Evans, and [Eliza] Ridgely. Later a paper was read by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham on John Howard Payne ending with a poem. The President also read a poem, and Mrs. [Theodore] Caskin on Browning. During the meeting a paper was circulated by Miss Eleanor Turnbull, containing the names of the Officers of the Club, and the list of Committees on literary work with the names of their Chairmen.

Meeting adjourned about 6 o’clock.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)