---
title: 1890-10-07 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-10-07-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[13]

## 6th General Meeting--October 7th 1890.

### 6th Meeting 861 Garden St. President’s address. Co-education address Mrs. Tiernan. Apology--Caskin. Poems--Reese. Paper--Lord. Paper--S.W. Dorsey. Paper--Brent. Poem--Grace. Poems of Empress of Japan

The 6th general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club, and the 1st business meeting for the autumn of 1890 was held on Tuesday, October 7th, at 861 Garden Street, at 4 o’clock, with the President in the chair and 51 members present. The literary entertainment was as follows:

1. Opening address by the President declaring that the gift of beauty is divine--in writing as elsewhere, and hoping that the Club will be careful always to encourage only that which is truly beautiful, never that which covers evil though it be with the glitter of exquisite words.

2. Address by Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan on “Co-education”: why not harmful to manners, morals, health or the duties of woman?

3. An “Apology” by Mrs. [Theodore] Caskin for the non-appearance of her paper on Eminent Women pleading the bewildering fulness of the subject.

4. Five poems from the forth-coming volume of Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese recited by Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud, namely: “Lord, oft I come”, “Tell me some way”, “April in Town”, “Lydia”, and “An Old Song.”[^lavender]

[^lavender]: These poems were published in _A Handful of Lavender_, published by Houghton, Mifflin in 1891.

5. “Women in Literature”, by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord], praising especially--in poetry, Mrs. [Elizabeth Barrett] Browning; in fiction, George Eliot--also a greeting to the Club.

6. “A Study in Brilliants” by S. [Saffie] W. Dorsey--or an appeal for the undiscovered--in nature, in art, and in the Club--also notice of distinguished writers present and mention of the press.

7. “Eastern Women” by Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent being a certain lovely princess _[lines left for missing text]_ . . . and charming Rebecca--the mother of Israel.

8. Recital by Miss [Mary F.] Grace of a poem on the song of a bird.

9. Poems by [the] Empress of Japan, read by Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey, being extracts from the letter of a professor in the university of Tokio. Meeting adjourned. _[Marginal note]_ Add proposed members’ names read.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)