---
title: 1890-10-14 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-10-14-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[14]

## 7th General Meeting October 14th 1890

### 7th meeting 861 Garden St.; New Committee; Honorary members

The 7th general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday, October 14th, 1890, at 861 Garden Street, at 4 o’clock, with the President in the chair. There were about 25 members present. After the reading of the minutes of the last meeting by the Secretary, the names of the literary Committees were ready by the President and members invited to join them. A new Committee was formed--“The Authors and Artists of Maryland”--Mrs. Alan [Ellen Anna Jones] Smith, Chairman.

Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield was declared an honorary member of the Club, and Miss Fothergill[^fot] proposed as such.

[^fot]: Possibly a reference to Jessie Fothergill (1851-1891), British novelist and author of _The First Violin_ (1877).

### Foreign members; Encourage members’ work; New work mentioned; Treasurer’s article; Lecture, Marie Bashkirtseff

It was suggested that certain distinguished women in foreign countries be made honorary members--as Mrs. Arthur Caley, Cambridge, England, and Miss Amelia B. Edwards. Also suggested that the literary works of our own members be encouraged and welcomed by the Club. Notice given of a new book of poems by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese and of another story “The Web of Gold” by Miss  [Katharine Pearson] Woods. Attention called to the forthcoming article by the Treasurer of the Club in the series of papers on “Woman’s Work in America.”[^wwia] Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham through Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord invited the Club to hear Mrs. [Mary] Livermore lecture in the evening at the Woman’s Congress. A paper was read by Mrs. [Li] Goddard on “Marie Bashkirtseff” followed by general conversation on the subject. Also a paper on “Caroline Schlegel” by Mrs. [Julia R.] Tutwiler, and conversation by the Club.

[^wwia]: Christine Ladd-Franklin was the treasurer of the Club at this time. Her essay "Education of Women in the Southern States" was published in 1891 in the volume _Woman's Work in America_, edited by Annie Nathan Meyer.

### Voting on 20 immortelles

The members were invited to vote on 20 immortelles in literature, and send answers to “The Critic” through 2nd Vice President.[^immort] Proposed members’ names read. Meeting adjourned.

[^immort]: The magazine The Critic requested readers to submit their list of “twenty immortelles” (immortals” in September 1890. The following October, they printed the list of submitted entries, which included. See the list at <a href=" https://www.jstor.org/stable/25679023"> Legacy 5.1 (Spring 1988), 67-69.</a>

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)