---
title: 1890-09-23 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-09-23-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

[11]

## Board of Management Meeting September 23rd

### Board meeting Albion Hotel. Committees. Room for Club. Room Committee.

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman’s Literary Club was called for Tuesday morning, September 23d, 1890, at 11.15 o’clock in a private room of the Albion Hotel. Present 8 members--President in the Chair.

By President, subject of Committees taken up and of the selection of a room for the meetings of the Club with suitable platform for officers and member selected to give the reading. Committee of 3--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, Mrs. [Mary Spear [Tiernan] and Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton appointed to attend to this matter.

### 1st Winter meeting to be reported. Club badge, color, motto. Committee of 1

The following decisions made:

That next meeting of Club--first of winter--shall be reported for newspapers;

At suggestion of President that Club badge be adopted, Club color--violet, and Club motto--“Parole femine” (part of Maryland State motto) Miss Haughton was appointed to attend to badges, and to stamping of writing paper for Club invitations;

### Reception Committee. Card of Meetings. Committee of 1. R.S.V.P. on invitations. Invitation to Woman’s Convention

That Committee of 3 be selected for each meeting to help to receive members;

At Mrs. [Emily Anna] Smith’s suggestion, that list of meeting days for year be printed on cards and distributed for convenience of members; (Mrs. Smith was appointed Committee of 1 to attend to printing.) That R.S.V.P. be put on invitations for October 7th;

That we decline because of recent organization, the invitation of Mrs. Robinson, President of W.C.T.U. [Women's Christian Temperance Union] to send a member to read a paper on Club at Women’s Convention in Baltimore October 14th;

### Salon day once a month, tea

That it will be well to hold Salon on last meeting day of each month and only once in the month, and that tea may be provided on that occasion.

### [Additional organizational matters.]

Suggestions as follows:

That certain new names be added to Club list, as some

[12]

were given before organization in spring of 1890;

By President, that printed slips containing Sections 1 and 2 of Article 4, and Section 1 on Article 5 be enclosed to new members when invited to join the Club;

That Constitutional clause Article 6 Section 1 on meetings be changed, and election take place in spring, thus giving new officers summer’s leisure for their arrangements;

By Mrs. Smith, that Committee be named to alter Constitution;

That name of Committee on Literary Remains and Curios be altered;

That Dr. Brown furnish list of local artists.

Note also:

The resignation of Miss Haughton from Lake Poets Committee; the partial arrangement of programme for October 7th, and the naming of reception Committee for that day--Mrs. Dobbin, Mrs. [Julia R.] Tutwiler, Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud, Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller. Also: that gentlemen shall not be admitted to Club meetings, except on certain occasions--not usually. Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary          

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)