---
title: 1890-11-11 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-11-11-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 10th General Meeting--November 11th 1890.

### 10th meeting 861 Garden St.; Paper--Stockbridge; Poem--Stockbridge; Address--Tiernan

The tenth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, November 11th, 1890, at 4 o’clock, with the President in the chair. Members present 33. The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary. The first paper was by Mrs. [Henry Stockbridge] on Mrs. Erminia A. Smith of Jersey City, geologist, mineralogist and founder of an aesthetic society. Mrs. Stockbridge also read a youthful poem by Mrs. W[illia]m Crawford, on “a dying shark’s opinion of Mrs. Erminia A. Smith." Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan gave an address on “Expression”--of faces and words, and mentioned the necessity of distinct speaking in our modest America and at the Woman’s Literary Club.

### Paper--Minor; Paper--McCoukey; Journal--Grace; Suggestion--Crane

Miss [Fannie] Minor read a paper on “A Path to Eminence for Women” and the President gave Miss [Rebecca] McCoukey’s article entitled “Far above Rubies." Miss [Mary F.] Grace read the account of an interview with Madames [Juliette] de Récamier and [Germaine] de Stäel, taken from Mrs. John Izard Middleton’s [Eliza Augusta Falconet Middleton] Journal written in 1829. The President called attention to the various Committees. Miss [Lydia] Crane suggested that the literary subject for each week be announced at the preceding meeting. Names read. Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)