---
title: 1890-12-12 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-12-12-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[24]

## Board Meeting--December 12th 1890.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 24]

### Board meeting 1530 Park Ave; Members’ list; Absent members’ dues; Treasurer’s report; Time of admission of new members; Dues of those who join late; Vote on method of proposing members; Both sides of subject taken

Meeting Board of Management held at President’s residence, 1530 Park Avenue, December 12th at noon, President in chair--all members present. List of uncertain members looked over and settled. Discussion whether members absent from city or detained long at home by illness shall pay full dues--not settled. Treasurer read report.

Questions? Shall members be voted in at any time, or only twice a year? Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] suggested that we defer this point until next year.

Shall those who join late in year pay full dues? Discussion. Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge suggested that dues be paid twice a year and no deduction made just for entrance just before either half yearly payment. Discussion on election of new members. Mrs. Smith [May (?) Smith] suggested that proposer must state in writing whether new member is capable and willing to join the Club. Seconded and agreed upon.

Mrs. Stockbridge suggested that this motion be read to Club at next meeting, adding that the appreciation must be made to Executive Board, and go into effect after next week.

Mrs. Stockbridge suggested to members of Executive Board that in literary subjects both sides be taken up. Considered advisable.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)