---
title: 1890-12-23 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-12-23-meetings.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 15th General Meeting--December 23rd 1890.

### 15th meeting 861 Garden St; Song--Yardley “Home, Sweet Home”; Paper--Graham; Attention called to Prof. Crouch; Poems--Easter; Lanier Criticism (President) by Mr Hutton; Letter--Martineau

The fifteenth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, December 23rd at 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair--about 27 persons present. After minutes of last meeting had been read by Secretary, Mrs. [Alice] Yardley sang Payne’s “Home, Sweet Home”, assisted by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller and the Club. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham read a paper on John Howard Payne whom she would have preferred to treat as a dramatist, had this not been “an afternoon with the poets." Mrs. Graham recommended Payne’s Life by Gabriel Harrison and stated that the musical outline of “Home, Sweet Home” had been taken by Payne from a Sicilian air, arranged by Bishop, and with the words, first brought out publicly, in the opera of “Clara,” at Covent Garden Theatre, London, May 8--1823. A painting of a fireplace in John Howard Payne’s home in East Hampton was shown by Mrs. Graham to the Club. Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord called attention to Professor F. Nicholls Crouch who resides in Baltimore, the composer of the music of Kathleen Mavourneen, and the writer of many poems. Mrs.  [Marguerite E.] Easter read these original poems: “The Blessed Bambino,” “Summer’s Farewell” and “At Moon’s Meridian." The President read a complimentary criticism on Sidney Lanier by Mr Hutton editor of “The Spectator” an English magazine. Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton announced that an

[28]

English clergyman had spoken of “Sun Springs” as the most exquisite poem he had ever read. The President read a letter from James Martineau, saying that Sidney Lanier should have been rather a musical composer than a poet as his depth of feeling was greater than his imagination or poetic skill. President announced that at Salon on following week Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer would read “The Vision of St Anthony”[^anthony] to which was added a poem by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese. Adjourned.

[^anthony]: Latimer’s poem “The Vision of St. Anthony” was published in _Harper’s Monthly_ in January, 1891, as noted in the minutes of the minutes of the Salon held on Dec. 30, 1890.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)