---
title: 1890-10-21 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-10-21-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[15]

## 8th General Meeting--October 21st 1890.

### 8th meeting 861 Garden St.; Alterations in Constitution proposed; Elections day; Salon 1 a month; Club quorum

The eighth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday, October 21st, 1890, at 861 Garden Street, at 4 o’clock, with the President in the chair. Members present 32. After reading of minutes of last meeting by Secretary, the President proposed certain alterations in the Constitution that Art[icle] 6, Sec[tion] 1 be changed so that the election of officers shall take place at the last business meeting Tuesday in May instead of the first Tuesday in December. To be considered by the Club and voted upon later; that Sec[tion] 2 be changed so that a Salon shall be held only the last Tuesday in each month instead of every other week, leaving the other Tuesdays for literary meetings. Also to be voted upon by the Club; that Art[icle] 7, Sec[tion] 1 be added the words “where 20 shall constitute a quorum,” thus more definitely settling the number of votes required to make any change in the Constitution.

The President also called attention to Art[icle] 4, Sec[tion] 2, reminding the Club that moral influence is even more to be desired than literary excellence.

### Moral influence; Papers: Crane on Browning; Lord on Mrs. Browning; Mrs. Graham’s suggestion; 2 Browning letters; Names proposed read.

Papers were read by Miss [Lydia] Crane on “Robert Browning”--a poet and a teacher, and by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord on “Mrs. Browning." Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham proposed that the opposite side be taken and a paper given by a non[-]admirer of Browning. Two very interesting unpublished letters of Mr and Mrs. Browning were read to the Club by the President.

Names of proposed members read. Meeting adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 


[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)