---
title: 1890-12-09 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-12-09-minutes.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[23]

## 13th General Meeting--December 9th 1890.

### 13th Meeting 861 Garden St.; Miss Toulmin Smith; Address--Tiernan; Discussion on the religious and the artistic novel; Old M.S.--Smith, 15th Century

The thirteenth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street on Tuesday afternoon, December 9th, at 3.30 o’clock, President in chair--about 45 persons present, among whom Miss L. Toulmin Smith, of Yorkshire, England. Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan gave an address on “Fiction as an Art” followed by discussion between Mrs. Tiernan and Miss K.P. [Katharine Pearson] Woods on the point raised that “the religious novel is not usually the artistic novel”--which was laid aside for fuller discussion on some afternoon. Miss L.T. [L. Toulmin] Smith spoke on “The Story of a 15th Century M.S.” (?) in possession of the Cornwallis family, and described M.S. as containing accounts, poems, and plays indiscriminately written down.

Miss Smith read account of story of dialogue of boy and Roman emperor Hadrian--the boy supposed to be Jesus, and the story to teach of the nine kinds of angels, the three means of attaining life, seven heavens, ways of fasting, etc. Miss Smith also told of old miracle plays--performed in succession, so that by going from one to another, peasants could be instructed in story of Bible, and she read selections from play of “Abraham and Isaac”, of sacrifice on “Mt. Vision”, the boy “so meek” asking for the “quick beast”, of binding of Isaac’s hand, of covering of his face with cloth, of his request that he might at least “not see the sword”, of angel praising Abraham for keeping commandment, and of sacrifice of “gentle sheep." Miss Smith also referred to tale of a purgatory supposed to be in the wilds of Ireland, and designed to teach doctrine of purgatory.

### Baltimore Tale--Milnor

Mrs. Tiernan, Chairman of Committee on Fiction then introduced Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor and her maiden story “What the Chief Justice said”--a tale of Baltimore and of statue of Chief Justice Taney--read by Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)