---
title: 1891-04-22 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-04-22-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[64]

## Board Meeting--April 22nd 1891.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 64-66]

### Meeting of Board of Management 4 East Madison St. April 22nd.

A meeting of the Board of Management was held at 4 East Madison Street, April 22nd, 1891, with the second Vice-President in the Chair, and 7 members present.

Minutes of the last two meetings of the Board of Management were read by the Secretary, corrected and approved by the Board.

### On “Special Meeting of Club”; On meeting Board of Management

Article 6, Section 3 allowing a special meeting of the Club to be called by fifteen members, was by suggestion of Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge, and by vote, changed to permit such a meeting to be called by ten members. Discussion whether two or three members of Board of Management should have the power to call a meeting of the Board resulted in favor of leaving this power with any two members, and Section 1 of Article III was amended so as to read “The Board shall have regular meetings as often as once in each month during the season, and _upon the request of the President_ or any two of its members, the Secretary shall call a special meeting of the Board."

### By-Law on mode of election

The following resolution put by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] was finally passed as a By-Law: “At the meeting for the election of officers, nominations may be made by members of the Club. The six members of the Executive Committee shall be separately voted for."

### On “Nominating Committee”

The question was discussed whether the Club should nominate for each office directly, or should choose a Nominating Committee, which Committee it was suggested should consist of three--Mrs. Stockbridge thought there should be five members--but the Board seemed finally in favor of three. Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin moved

[65]

that the question of having a nominating Committee be presented to the Club for its decision, and was seconded by Mrs. Stockbridge. Mrs. Colvin moved that this be presented by to the President or Vice-President at the next meeting. On discussion, it was suggested that the Club might choose some of its best members for this Committee--thus practically debarring them from election; after which discussion, Mrs. Colvin re-considered her motion to present the disputed question to the Club, and was seconded by Mrs. Franklin who then moved to lay the motion on the table--seconded by Mrs. Colvin who thought this best at present. Passed.

Mrs. Colvin thought it might be unnecessary to nominate if the Club elected by ballot.

Mrs. Franklin did not agree.

### On question of Presiding Officer for Election Day; On mode of election; Majority vote; Motion on Paper of Instruction for Chairman

Question discussed whether the meeting for election should be presided over by the President of by a temporary Chairman. The majority thought the latter was the general custom.

Suggested that at the election meeting, nominations can be called for, but yet each one can vote for her own candidate; that after the first voting _all_ the lists be read; that there should be two tellers; and the Chairman should announce the result.

The sense of the meeting was that the elections should be by majority, not by plurality.

Mrs. Colvin moved that one of the Committee draw up a paper stating details given, and if approved by the Board, instruct by this the Chairman for election day. Mrs. Colvin moved that Mrs. Franklin write the paper. Mrs. Franklin declined as being too busy.

[66]

Finally decided that Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton should write it out, and compare it with the Secretary’s accounts.

Mrs. Franklin resigned from the Committee on the Printing of the Constitution. Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin named Mrs. Colvin, seconded by Mrs. [Li] Goddard, Mrs. Alan Smith was named by Mrs. Stockbridge, seconded by Mrs. Franklin. It was suggested that the Committee consist of three--which was decided upon.

Color of cover to Constitution discussed, and referred to Committee. Mrs. Franklin asked if she were authorized to pay for Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor's scrap book for Committee. No dissent.

The Second Vice-President presented form to be printed for invitations to residents of Baltimore in pursuance of By-Law 3.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Approved.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)