---
title: 1891-03-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-03-17-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[49]

## 25th General Meeting--March 17th 1891

The twenty fifth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street on Tuesday afternoon, March 17th at 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. There were about 30 persons present.

### President's Greet[ing] "Woman's Work in America"; Miller on "Novels"; Mrs. Tiernan's note on "Jack Horner"

The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary, and a short greeting to the Club was given by the President who announced the publication of “Woman’s Work in America” edited by Mrs. Anna [Annie] Nathan Meyer,[^meyer] and containing the paper on “Education in the South” by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin]. Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller read a paper on “Novels,” tracing their growth through the legend, ballad, epic, tale, and romance to their present form. Good novels may teach experience, break down narrowness, and inculcate great truths--from them one may learn heroism, self-sacrifice, charity. Novelists have a noble mission to perform in the training of the young.

[^meyer]: Annie Nathan Meyer edited the volume _Woman’s Work in America_ (1891), which published Ladd-Franklin’s essay. 

A note from Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan on her last novel “Jack Horner” was read by the President.

### "Moral Element in Fiction"--Mason

Miss [Miriam] Mason gave a paper on “The Moral Element in Fiction,” stating that books of fictitious values beautify evil which alone is so unattractive, and that from weighing the moral element in fiction, we turn to see fiction as a moral element. Miss Mason doubted if there is any book that does not produce some moral effect--noteworthy practical example: the People’s Palace of London.[^besant]

[^besant]: The People’s Palace, built in London’s East End in 1887, was inspired by Walter Besant’s novel _All Sorts and Conditions of Men: An Impossible Story_ (1882), in which a building of this name is built by the social reform-minded characters to benefit the working-class inhabitants of the East End. 

### "Moral Purpose in Fiction"[--] Hoffman

Miss [Fanny] Hoffman read a paper on “Moral Purpose in Fiction” --A novel should be a work of art passing from the actual to the ideal world, tracing out the results of sin and rewards of virtue. A moral purpose should run through all novels, as they educate for good and evil.

[50]

The President announced that at the next meeting certain constitutional clauses should be taken up by the Club, and two members elected to the Board of Management in place of Mrs. Tiernan and Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent.

The President also read selections from [Sidney] Lanier and [E. C.] Stedman on works of art, and announced the subject “A Moral Purpose in Fiction” for present discussion. Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer thought the object of the novel without special moral was to help and comfort others as we are helped, that there should be a moral purpose but no moral.

The President thought an _indirect_ moral purpose might render the story more attractive.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham wondered if the moral purpose is not higher when unconscious--the spiritual beyond the scientific!

Mrs. Graham read “Thomas à Kempis”--a poem by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese.

The President suggested that the various Committees study their subjects together, that we may have even better work than heretofore, and asked that word be sent to her when a paper is ready.

The President also announced that Miss [Grace] Balch will give a paper on “George Eliot” at the next meeting.

Adjourned

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)