---
title: 1891-05-05 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-05-05-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[69]

## Board Meeting--May 5th 1891.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 69]

### Meeting Board of Management 861 Garden St. May 5th; Election of new members; Non-resident members; Section on By-Laws to Mrs. Stockbridge; Club shall have voice in By-Laws; On Treasurer’s reports--days; Elections report postponed

The meeting of the Board of Management (W.L.C.) for the election of new members took place at 861 Garden Street, May 5th, before the Club meeting. Quorum present. The following new members were elected: Miss Bainbridge, Miss Anna [Lewis] Cole, Miss Leila Gittings, Miss Margaret [Sutton] Briscoe. Later Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett was voted in also. Miss [Frances] Albert Doughty was made a non-resident member. Honorary membership not conferred on two applicants presented, as the Board knew nothing of them.

The Section in Constitution on By-Laws was given to Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge for amendment, as it was sense of Board that the Club shall have a voice in the By-Laws. Section of Constitution on Treasurer’s report also given might be appointed for the reports.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton postponed report on elections.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Approved(?)

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)