---
title: 1891-04-07 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-04-07-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 27th General Meeting--April 7th 1891.

### 27th general meeting 861 Garden Street April 7th; Mrs. Wolcott; Changes in Constitution

The twenty seventh general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, Tuesday afternoon, April 7th, at 3.30 o’clock with the President in the chair. About 49 persons were present, and among them Mrs. [Henrietta L. T.] Wolcott of Massachusetts. The minutes of the last two meetings were read by the Secretary. The addition of Section 6 to Article II of the Constitution, the rejection of Section 1 of Article III, and the adoption of Sections V, VI, and VII of Article IV, (and doubtless Section 9) were suggested to the Club through the President. One or two were passed by a rising vote and no further changes were made in the resolutions offered.

### Paper--Arbor Day[,] Miss S. Dorsey; Vote of thanks

Miss S[affie] W. Dorsey read a paper on Arbor Day, hoping that it may be kept as a festival, and suggested that we plant especially the sycamore, cedar, willow and rose tree.[^arbor] Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham moved a special vote of thanks to Miss Dorsey in the name of the country members.

[^arbor]: Arbor Day was first celebrated in Nebraska in 1872, and was celebrated in schools across the country in 1882. Today it is celebrated in all 50 states, by and large in conjunction with the international Earth Day celebration, which was first established in the US in 1970.

### Women’s Education, Mrs. Colvin

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin gave a paper on “A few remarks on the Education of Women." She gave no plea for higher education as that has been proved proper, but the question is where and how to get it. It may be acquired in Colleges, but “how” is harder to answer. Shall she learn something about everything, or everything about something?--the first attainable in American, the second in German colleges. Shall she develop that broader character, or become the more conscientious student? Mrs. Colvin gave a personal illustrations of the latter course by describing her three years’ study in [the] University of Zurich. From the four divisions of law, medicine, theology and philosophy she chose

[57]

under the latter head, French(?), Italian, Provencal, &c., as a major, and Anglo-Saxon as a minor subject. Examination for a degree was very difficult, consisting of an original paper (she chose the examination of a 13th Century M.S.), one written at home for which 3 days were allowed, a written examination, and--most terrible of all--an oral examination. The last was of examinations in Latin, modern French, phonetic examinations in various languages. Mrs. Colvin gained to her surprise a first degree, and her opinion is that European Colleges not only teach but create science, and that women may take a course in Johns Hopkins University or Bryn Mawr for general knowledge, then go abroad to study some special branch for three or four years.

### “Modern Methods of Education," Duer; Conversation on Educational sub[jects]

Miss Edith Duer gave a talk on “Modern Methods of Education." The old idea was to teach facts--to instil the classics even with the rod--the new aim was “development” illustrated by reference to kindergarten teaching and to Mr Parker’s methods.[^parker] Miss Duer had been asked by an educator why there was such a loss of interest in study in children between 8 or 10 and 16. Mrs. Colvin thought (may be or many?)[^note] physical disadvantages, Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] questioned if the methods of teaching were so good, Mrs. Wolcott thought too much distraction by other things, Miss Duer suggested dancing classes, Mrs. Bullock want of fresh air, exercise, home training.

[^parker]: Francis Wayland Parker (1837-1902) was a leader in the progressive school movement in the United States and advocated for the education of the whole child, including the intellectual, physical, and moral aspects of being.
[^note]: Secretary Ridgely appears to be transcribing from notes and is unable to make out what either she or another Club member has written.

### Invitation to Kindergarten; Con[versation] on School Board &c.; Next program

Mrs. [Margaret] Lake gave invitation to Club to visit free Kindergarten. Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge understood that men are willing to let women be upon School Board if women will come forward.

[59]

Mrs. Franklin thought that women should visit private schools, and serve upon public school boards.

President announced subject of next meeting, and Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)