---
title: 1891-01-06 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-01-06-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[29]

## 16th General Meeting, January 6th 1891

### 16th meeting 861 Garden St.; Letter--Dandridge

The sixteenth general meeting of W.L.C. held at 861 Garden Street, Tuesday afternoon, January 6th 1891, at 3.30 o’clock--President in chair. Members present about 34. Letter was read by Secretary from Mrs. Danske Dandridge [Caroline "Danske" Dandridge] presenting her book of poems “Rose Brake” to the Club.[^rose]

[^rose]: Rose Brake was the name of Danske Dandridge’s home in West Virginia, as well as the title of a <a href=“https://archive.org/details/rosebrakepoems00dand”>collection of poems</a> she published in 1890 (NY: G. P. Putnam’s Sons). Dandridge, originally from Denmark, was an honorary member of the WLCB.

### “The Lake Poets” Paper--Lord; Paper--Griffin; Paper--Tutwiler; Paper--Easter.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, Chairman of Committee on “The Lake Poets” gave a paper introducing them--Wordsworth, Coleridge, Southey. Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin gave a paper on Wordsworth--speaking of triads necessary to poetry--1. endowment of genius; 2nd training of experience; 3rd happiness of expression;--again--heart and eye for nature, and boldness to expound her;--that Wordsworth writes according to Coleridge’s testimony with “austere purity of style”--also a poet of nature although as has been said man is often “kept waiting while the poet muses." Mrs. [Julia R.] Tutwiler read a paper on Southey--describing him as having literary faculty--no genius; as being industrious--not inspired with the faculty of construction abnormal. The next paper was on Coleridge by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter read by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller--Coleridge a fine thinker but an intellectual criminal, having defrauded mankind by work only partly completed--the “Ancient Mariner” being the only finished work in a “life of beginnings.”

Adj[ourned].

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)