---
title: 1891-04-14 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-04-14-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[59]

## Board Meeting--April 14th 1891.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 59-60]

### Board of Management 861 Garden Street April 14th; On Constitution; On Board Meeting; Vacancies in office?; Special meetings of Club; By Laws: President’s report; Non-resident guests of members; On admission of Residents of Baltimore to meetings.

A meeting of the Board of Management of the W.L.C. was held at 861 Garden Street on Tuesday afternoon, April 14th, at 2.30 o’clock.

The Treasurer was in the chair, and there were 7 members present.

The following resolutions were made. To leave out Section 4 of Article III of the Constitution;[^const] to add the following rule--”The Board shall have regular meetings as often as once in each month, and upon the request in writing of two of its members, the Secretary shall call a special meeting of the Board”; to add (to Article II--Section 7 on Vacancies in Office) to Article VI Section 3 on “Special Meetings of Club may be called by the President”--”and shall be called at any time on the written request of fifteen members of the Club”; to add the following By-Laws: “The President shall make a report to the Club at the annual Meeting." “Each member has the privilege of bringing a non-resident guest at any time." It was the sense of the meeting that residents of Baltimore might be admitted by invitation once or once a year to the Club meetings, and by Mrs. Franklin’s [Christine Ladd-Franklin] suggestion, Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord was made a Committee of one

[^const]: The original reads “Sections 1 & 4” with “1 &” struck out.

[60]

on Invitations for the remainder of the Club-year. The Board also decided to have no more refreshments at the Social meetings and to strike the word “Salon” from the Constitution.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

Minutes approved April 22nd.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)