---
title: 1891-02-03 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-02-03-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 20th General Meeting--February 3rd 1891

### 20th meeting 1530 Park Avenue; Lanier memorial; Nevins’ musical tribute; President’s address; Lanier’s unpublished letters; Haman read “Sunrise”

The twentieth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday afternoon, February 3d, after 3.30 o’clock, at the residence of the President, and was kept as a memorial day to Sidney Lanier being the anniversary of the poet’s birth. There were about 37 members present. Various memorials to the poet were shown--among others a musical tribute by Miss Nevins on “The Trees and the Master." The President addressed the Club on the birthday of the poet, and, suggesting that his own words are his best description, read some of his spontaneous utterances in unpublished letters--on Chopin, on Wagner “whose music is a gospel”, of the “bud [?] notes” of Neilsson, of Schumann who has the fault of Germans[--] their thought and genius showing want of fulness. Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman[n] read Lanier’s poem “Sunrise”

[37]

to the Club.[^lit]

[^lit]: The reputation of Southern poet Sidney Lanier (1842-1881), was assiduously cultivated by Francese Litchfield Turnbull throughout her many years at the helm of the WLCB. Lanier fought for the Confederacy during the Civil War, and later relocated to Baltimore with his wife Mary. A musician as well as a poet, he was an early member of the Peabody Conservatory orchestra, where he played the flute, and also became a faculty member in the literature department at the Johns Hopkins University. Dying at the relatively young age of 39, he was buried in the Turnbull family plot in Baltimore. Lanier’s poem “Sunrise” (1881) was perhaps his best-known, and contained the line “I am lit with the sun,” referenced by Marguerite E. Easter in her own tribute to Lanier read at the meeting and published in _Clytie and Other Poems_ (1891).

### Easter--original lines; Cloud read selections; Reese original verses; President gave “Sketch”; Lanier read “Dewdrop”, and Burton’s letter and sonnet; Graham original verses; Whitelock original verses; Dandridge’s verses; President lines

Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter gave original lines on the poet’s words, “I am lit with the sun."

Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud read selections from “The Marshes of Glynn,” and Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese original verses entitled “The Lost Shepherd." The President gave Lanier’s “Sketch for a Marsh Hymn No. 4--Between Dawn and Sunrise."[^shepherd]

[^shepherd]: Reese’s “The Lost Shepherd” was published with the subtitle “In Memory of Sidney Lanier” in The Southern Bivouac in Jan. 1887 (Vol. 2, No. 8), and Reese also dedicated her 1890 volume _A Handful of Lavender_ to Lanier (the poem however, did not appear in the book). Lanier’s “The Marshes of Glynn” was part of an unpublished series of poems treating the landscape of Glynn County, Georgia; Turnbull’s reading was likely another poem from this series. 

Mrs. [Mary Day] Lanier read “The Dewdrop” by a Southern friend, and Richard Burton’s letter and sonnet “In Memoriam[.]”

Original verses were given by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham--”A Tribute,” and by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock “To Sidney Lanier."

The President read Mrs. Dandridge’s [Caroline "Danske" Dandridge] verses “To Sidney Lanier”, and Miss [Mary F.] Grace read selections from the poet’s prose article “From Bacon to Beethoven”, printed in the “No Name” number of Lippincott’s magazine for 1888. He said in effect, that music is not language, but language is a kind of music. Drawing must be assisted by reason as it possesses neither distance nor magnitude. True music and true morality will increase together. The piano is an imperfect instrument, having _fixed_ tones, Shakespeare is master of conventional--Beethoven of unconventional tones; where Shakespeare ends, Beethoven begins.

The President then added a few words from herself, and lines written by her on Lanier’s visit to the woods with his family.[^whitelock]

[^whitelock]: It is not known if either Graham’s or Whitelock’s poems were ever published. Danske Dandridge’s “To Sidney Lanier” was published in her book _Joy and Other Poems_ in 1888. The verses by Turnbull do not appear to have been published, but her admiration of Lanier manifested in a variety of ways. She read a tribute, “In Memoriam,” at a celebration of Lanier’s birthday at Johns Hopkins University in 1888 (_The Forty-Sixth Birthday of Sidney Lanier_, ed. Daniel Coit Gilman (Baltimore: Publication Agency of Johns Hopkins University, 1888) 18-21).

### Music by Beethoven Terrace Amateur Orchestra

The Club was invited to the music room where selections were given by the Beethoven Terrace Amateur Orchestra, and the poet’s flute was used.

[38]

The selections were “Flower Song” from Lange, “Evening Star” (from Tannhäuser) by Wagner, and “The Palms” by Faure, after which refreshments were served, and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)