---
title: 1891-05-26 Social Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-05-26-social.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[77]

## 9th Social Meeting--May 26th 1891.

### 9th Social meeting 861 Garden St. May 26th; Papers read; Dammann on “Geo. H. Miles”; Ridgely on “Peace”; Photo honorary member

The ninth Social meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street on Tuesday afternoon, May 26th, at 3.30 o’clock with the President in the chair.

There were about 25 persons present.

On account of the approaching end of the season, papers were read as at the usual meetings.

Minutes of the annual meeting were read by the Secretary. The first paper was by Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann on George H. Miles a critic and poet of Baltimore, speaking of his life and works, and describing his essay on Hamlet as a convincing treatise. The poet’s wife has still some of his unpublished manuscripts.

The second paper was by Miss [Eliza] Ridgely on “Peace--a Question of Many Days”, contrasting various methods of securing individual and international Peace.

The President called attention of the Club to the Committees for the coming year, and asked the members to be present the following week when the plan would probably be more fully settled.

Also announced that a photograph had been received from an honorary member--Miss [Rebecca] McCoukey.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)