---
title: 1891-03-24 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-03-24-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[51]

## Board Meeting--March 24th 1891.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 51-52]

### Board of Management Meeting March 24th; On Constitutional clauses: Election new members, Old section 5; Old section 6; New section 5; New section 6; New section 7; Old section 7 moved to section 8; On “Literary Committee” removed; Birthday of Club last Tuesday in April suggested President; On publishing small book of some Club papers and poems; Suggested Committee of 5 for final judgement

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday afternoon, March 24th, after 2.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. Six members were present.

The Constitution was brought up, and the new Sections 5, 6, and 7 of IV on Elections were submitted to the Board by the Secretary, and approved. The old sections read as follows: Section 5--”The name and residence of every person proposed for membership together with the names of the proposer and seconder, shall be announced at the Club, at least two weeks before being acted upon by the Board.” Section 6--”The Board shall vote by ballot on each person so proposed, and such person shall be declared elected, unless two ballots are cast in the negative.” The new sections are: Section 5--”Proposed names of new members must be presented _in writing_ to a member of the Board of Management with the names of those who propose and second the nomination, and the address of the proposed member. It must be stated whether such a person is willing to join the Club and able and ready to fulfill the required duties.” Section 6--”The Board shall vote by ballot on each person so proposed and such person shall be declared approved, unless two ballots are cast in the negative. The names of those approved shall be read to the Club the same day and the following Tuesday, and such persons shall then be considered elected.”

Section 7--”The meetings of the Board for the approval of new members shall be held twice a year--on the first Tuesday in May and the first Tuesday in January, and those persons duly elected shall be admitted to full

[52]

membership on the first Tuesday in October and the first Tuesday in February respectively.”

The old Section 7 on the classification of resident and non-resident members was moved to Section 8.

Discussion on Article 3, Section 1 of the “Literary Committee.” Board decided to remove it from the Constitution, thus moving the next section &c. from Section II to Section I &c.

The President suggested that we keep the birthday of the Club on the last Tuesday in April.

Also that we select the best articles written by the Club during the winter, and publish a small book, with the best original poems read by the Club to lighten the book.

It was proposed that the members of the Club vote for the best articles and poems by means of slips, and that the final selection be made by a Committee of known literary ability perhaps.

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] suggested that this Committee consist of five members.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)