---
title: 1891-01-28 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-01-28-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[34]
## 19th General Meeting--January 28th 1891

### 19th meeting 861 Garden St.; Letter from 1st Vice President

The nineteenth general meeting of the W.L.C. was called for Tuesday afternoon, January 28th 1891, at 3.00 o’clock, at 861 Garden Street.

The President was in the chair, and there were about 36 persons present.

A letter was read from Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey [Hester Crawford Dorsey Richardson], first Vice President of the Club.

### Franklin--paper on Co-education

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] read a paper on the “Education of Women in the South” which is soon to be published with other articles in the shape of a book called “Women in America."[^wia] Mrs. Franklin said that in the Southern states the lighter graces--as music--are more cultivated, and it is not easy to raise the desire for lighter studies. In 1840 there was a general awakening, and now there are 150 institutions capable to confer college degrees: of these 40 are co-educational, 21 for the colored of both sexes, 88 for women only.[^college] If only the University of Virginia would open its doors to women, modern education would close in on the whole South. In the Woman’s College of Baltimore the grade is the same as in men’s colleges, and there are laboratories and professors, a gymnasium, etc. The Southern wealth is getting so great that the standard of women’s colleges should rise. It is not necessary that all colleges should be open to women--they only ask admission to the best colleges. Bishop Hurst says the new University in Washington will be open to women. The Peabody fund established 114 free scholarships in 10 states, and industrial training was established in 1852. The Mississippi industrial school is excellent, and worthy of imitation.[^school]

[^wia]: The book, titled _Woman’s Work in America,_ was published in 1891. The publication of Ladd-Franklin’s essay is officially announced in the minutes for the Mar. 17, 1891 meeting, but is summarized here.
[^college]: While the numbers of women’s colleges and universities cited here are impressive, Eliza Ridgely fails to note Ladd-Franklin’s judgment of these institutions of higher learning. In “The Education of Women in the Southern States,” Ladd-Franklin includes these statistics with the comment, “Not a single one of the so-called female colleges presents a real college course, and many of the co-educational colleges are colleges only in name” (<a href="https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=hvd.32044020265096&view=1up&seq=113&skin=2021">94</a>).
[^school]: The Woman’s College of Baltimore (now Goucher College) was founded in 1885 and was the location of the WLCB’s first meeting. Bishop John Fletcher Hurst founded American University in Washington, DC as a co-educational institution in 1893, and five women were included in the first entering class of 28 students. In Mississippi, the Industrial Institute and College for the Education of White Girls (now the Mississippi University for Women) was the first public women’s college in the US when established in 1884.

### Next meeting; Lanier memorial; Reception Feb. 6.

The President announced that the next meeting would be held in her house, and would be kept as a memorial of Sidney Lanier,

[35]

being the anniversary of his birth. The President also stated that a reception would be given at “The Lyceum” in February 6th, in honor of Miss Dorsey, one of the founders of the Club who was to be married. All Club members would have an invitation for an escort, and full dress would be worn if possible. Any flowers or art works sent for the reception should be to the care of Miss [Elizabeth] Adams.

### Pres[ident's] address on one of papers on Med. Ed. [Medical Education] of Women

An address was then read by the President in reference to one of the papers read on the “Medical Education of Women,” in which she stated that the papers are full of concentrated thought and research, but there had been one point not sufficiently discussed. We must be careful in seeking the lighter education of women--in co-education, in climbing we must be careful not to injure the delicate heart of refinement which gives women a certain advantage. Of course the proper aim of medicine is to eliminate itself, and necessity may at first require training that may later be set aside; for at first we consider _ideas_, then methods. Now that women are honest and earnest, let us protect the methods of learning medicine for the sake of future students.

### Conversation on Medical education for women, co-education.

Mrs. Smith announced that Miss Evarts holds a chair of medicine in Brussels.

Dr Hall [Alice T. Hall Chapman] said that in Stockholm there are women professors of mathematics, and in Italy, woman are associate professors of pathology and lecture to both men and women. Dr [Kali Campbell] Hurd said she had been always treated very well by men; she thought that women should be able to take a graduate-student course.

Mrs. Franklin thought co-education would make the after-practice--as in consultation--less embarrassing.

[36]

Dr Hall thought the influence of co-education on the refinement of women would be decided only by time. Miss  [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton suggested that women’s colleges should set a standard so high that only good, earnest women could enter.

Dr Hall also thought the better women seek higher culture, the inferior wish easy work.

The President thought when married women could write treatises.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 


[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)