---
title: 1891-04-21 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-04-21-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[63]

## 29th General Meeting--April 21st 1891.

### 29th general meeting 861 Garden St. April 21st

The twenty-ninth general meeting of the Woman's LIterary Club was held at 861 Garden Street on Tuesday afternoon, April 21st, at 3.30 o'clock.

The second Vice-President was in the chair, and there were about 36 persons present.

### Memorial Day, Shakspeare

The day was kept by the Club as a memorial for William Shakspeare. The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary.

### Shakspeare sketch, Goddard; Selection from “Two Gentlemen of Verona” was acted; Poem--Lord--"Reverie Straford on Avon"; Recitations,--Wilmer; Papers--"Hamlet," "&c., "King Lear," &c., Whitelock & Latimer"

Mrs. Goddard gave a short sketch of Shakspeare, speaking of his birth, parentage, works, and of some of his women characters.

A selection from the 2nd Scene of the 1st Act from "Two Gentlemen of Verona" was acted by Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin and Miss Gibbs.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord read a poem entitled “A Reverie at Stratford on Avon."

Mrs. [G. J.] Wilmer gave as recitations a part of the Courtship of Catharine from “Henry V,” and a portion of the trial scene in “The Merchant of Venice."

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock and Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer read papers on “Hamlet, according to the New School of Dramatic Art,” and “King Lear and his Daughters."

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] moved that the meeting be adjourned, seconded by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)