---
title: 1891-03-31 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-03-31-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[55]

## Board Meeting--March 31st 1891.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 55-56]

### Board of Management meeting 861 Garden St. March 31st; On renting house; On building; Election method; Sugg[ested] Crawford and Australian systems

A meeting of the Board of Management of the W.L.C. was held at 861 Garden Street on Tuesday afternoon, March 31st at 2.30 o’clock with the President in the chair. 7 members were present.

The President suggested that the Club rent a house on McMechen Street, let some of the rooms to lodgers, and have a reading room for the use of the neighborhood, not to be opened on Club days.

In speaking of building for ourselves, Mrs. Colvin [Mary Noyes Colvin] and others thought some of the women’s societies in Baltimore might unite with us, and we might build a house centrally located that would suit the purposes of us all. Action deferred.[^house]

[^house]: The Roland Park Woman's Club did exactly this in the early twentieth century. The house still stands at the southwest corner of Cold Spring Lane and Roland Avenue, and the Club still meets there today.

Subject of method of election of officers was taken up, and the Secretary proposed that the nominations be on the Crawford plan--free to all the members of the Club--and the names be given in without signature on the Australian plan of secrecy. Secretary proposed that this be done by slips printed with the names of the offices, and followed by blanks; that these papers be mailed to each Club member that she may fill out and return her list of nominees _unsigned_; that on the day of election these same form(s) of blank

[56]

lists may be at hand, and all nominees (so made by being named in two papers) shall be read aloud to the Club members, who may use the same blank slips for election. Plan rejected, as it was suggested that people should be willing to name their choice publicly, and that some might secretly nominate their own personal friends without regard to their fitness for the offices.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)