---
title: 1891-05-19 Annual Business Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-05-19-business-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

## Annual Business Meeting--May 19th 1891.

### Annual meeting 861 Garden St. May 19th; Treasurer’s report read; Club named a Chairman; Tellers appointed by Chair of day; Nominations by Club; Mrs. Turnbull elected Pres[ident]; Mrs. Griffin 1st Vice P[resident]; All votes read; Miss Haughton 2nd Vice P[resident]; Miss Ridgely--Sec[retary]; Treasurer elected; Ex[ecutive] Com[mittee] chosen

The annual business meeting (opened at) 861 Garden Street, May 19th--3 o’clock. With the President in chair.

The Secretary gave minutes of last meeting, and the Treasurer read a report of the finances of the Club.

The President asked the Club to name a Chairman, and Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin was elected.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

Mrs. Griffin, on taking the chair appointed Miss [Olga M.] Schröeder & Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, tellers, and the business of balloting for officers was begun--

Nominations for office were made by the Club.

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull was nominated for President--no other name was proposed--the ballot was taken and Mrs. Turnbull was elected by unanimous vote.

The next ballot was for 1st Vice President. Five nominations were made. The Chairman read the number of votes which each lady received. Mrs. Griffin had the majority vote.

The third ballot was for 2nd Vice President. The names were read, and Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton received the majority vote.

The next nomination was for Secretary & Miss Ridgely was elected.

[74]

Nominations were then made for treasurer--on the 2nd ballot, Miss Charlotte [de Macklot] Thompson was declared elected.

In order to save time, it was proposed by Mrs. Turnbull that the choice for the six officers of the executive committee be made at one time--Some twenty names were proposed and the 1st ballot gave a majority of votes to Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin, Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and Miss [Lydia] Crane.

Voting was continued until a majority vote could be obtained for the two other members of the Committee.

After three ballots, this resulted in the election of Miss [Henrietta] Szold, and Miss Brown. The meeting closed.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)