---
title: 1891-02-24 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-02-24-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 22nd General Meeting--February 24th 1891

The twenty second general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, February 24th, at 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. There were about 37 persons present.

### Longfellow Memorial Day; Turner's pictures.

The day was kept as a memorial of the poet Longfellow, and Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham lent for the occasion the copy of [Charles Yardley] Turner’s picture “The Courtship of Miles Standish,” and the etching by the artist himself of his picture “The Wedding Procession of Miles Standish.”

### President's address.

The President read a short address reminding the Club that a memorial day should not be a sad but a glad occasion.

### Latimer's Reminiscences.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer gave some personal reminiscences of Longfellow. She knew him when he was a young man, and took much interest in his love affairs, knew of his unsuccessful courtship of Miss Fannie Appleton of which “Hyperion” is the story, told of his visit abroad to the waters, how he came home to Boston quite whole-hearted, went to a Germania concert where the only vacant seat was by Miss Appleton, but, being cured, he resolved to take that one, had a pleasant evening, and feeling quite safe, resolved to call upon Miss Appleton--which resulted in an engagement in three weeks.

[42]

Mrs. Latimer also told that in a discussion at a dinner of the relative beauty of Mrs. Norton and the Duchess of Sutherland, Dickens had pronounced the latter “The most Kissable,” and that when Mrs. Agassiz had found a snake in her slippers, Agassiz hastened to enquire for “the other nine."

Mrs. Latimer also spoke of Longfellow’s kindness to other authors, of his letters to herself--one dated Cambridge 1853, thanking her for her novel “Amabel."

Longfellow’s poem “Footsteps of Angels” was read by Mrs. [Laura] Atkinson, and the President read a note from Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter saying that Evangeline was the first verse that appealed to her heart, and enclosing a “Sonnet to Evangeline”--also read by the President.

Miss [Elizabeth] Adams presented one of Longfellow’s autographs to the Club, sent by her sister Mrs. Fields.

Miss Adams said that her knowledge of the poet was through his publisher--Mr Fields. Longfellow had a great aptitude for acquiring foreign languages, but was not much of a talker. Miss Adams had by Longfellow’s request, made a sketch of the rock of Norman’s Woe, for which she had received a letter of thanks.

Miss Adams also read extracts from the poet’s letters to Mr and Mrs. Fields.

Moved and adopted by the Club that Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord's paper be read at the next meeting, and further selections from Longfellow’s works.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)