---
title: 1891-03-17 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-03-17-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## Board Meeting--March 17th 1891
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 47]

A meeting of the Board of Management of W.L.C. was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, March 17th, about 2.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. There were 7 members present.

Committee rejected proposal to give a reception to Mr [Edmund Clarence] Stedman, as the President stated that Mr Stedman had so many engagements.

The name of the Club was declared as “The Wom_an_’s (not Women’s) Literary Club, as President thought the decision accorded with the opinion of the majority of the Committee. Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller was made Chairman of the Committee on “Fiction” in place of Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan, deceased.

The Secretary proposed as a By-Law the motion taken

[48]

from a N[ew] Y[ork] association that “Any vacancy in office except that of President shall be filled by the Board for the unexpired term." Postponed by Treasurer who thought the Club in general was not pleased with the amount of power already in the hands of the Board. Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin and Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller were nominated to fill the vacancies in the Board of Management caused by the death of Mrs. Tiernan and the resignation of Miss Emma [Fenwick] Brent. The By-Law made at the Board meeting May 23rd 1890, and which read ”Honorary members shall be made only by invitation of the Executive Committee”, was placed in the body of the Constitution and was changed to “Honorary membership shall be extended only to those who will confer distinction upon the Club by their attainments in literature and science, and only by invitation of the Board of Management.”

By request of the Treasurer, the Secretary read Article 2, Section 6, and to it were added the words “and shall read a report to the Club at least twice a year.” Section 1 of Article 3 was retained in the body of the Constitution, and Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] suggested that one of the the duties of the Literary Committee to be to place the new members on the Committees where they would prefer to serve. It was suggested to withdraw Section 5 of Article 4 from the Constitution, and substitue the new law of election with the additions which the Secretary was requested to put in form for consideration at the next meeting.

Eliza Ridgely 
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)