---
title: 1891-04-14 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-04-14-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[60]

## 28th General Meeting--April 14th 1891.

### 28th Meeting 861 Garden Street April 14th

The twenty eighth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, April 14th at 3.30 o’clock.

In the absence of the President, the second Vice-President was in the Chair. There were about 35 members present.

### “Utopia”--Early

The Presiding Officer read Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early's paper on “Utopia." Its supposed inhabitants believe in the immortality of the soul; there is compulsory education, perfect equality, and no capital punishment, the women may be priests as well as the men; and gold is despised.

### “Talk on Education”, Stockbridge; Conversation on Education; Board of Lady Visitors suggested; Female Supervisors of Teachers; Parker system for Teachers; On Kindergarten

Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge gave a Talk on Education, calling attention especially to the public schools which not only have no room for the forty five percent of children that should attend, but are crammed with the remaining fifty five percent and not properly ventilated. Kentucky and Missouri have the best teachers.

In reply to Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], who enquired if Mrs. Stockbridge could suggest a remedy, the latter thought there might be a Board of Lady Visitors for the public schools,

[61]

and better training of the teachers.

Miss [Henrietta] Szold said there had been female supervisors of teachers in Philadelphia.

Miss [Edith] Duer thought the Parker system would train teachers to train pupils.

Mrs. Stockbridge said Mrs. Silvia Eastman had seen no fine scholars come through the Kindergarten; that the child should learn by effort.

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin thought there might be loss of independence by Kindergartens, and Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese--loss of imagination.

Miss Duer thought the success of the Kindergarten depends on the teacher as it means development--also that it teaches loss of self-consciousness.

### Two English “Literary Clubs”, Haman.

Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman read a paper on “Two English Literary Clubs”--the “Apollo Club” of Elizabeth’s time founded by Ben Jonson _[blank space left in text]_ and the “Literary Club” of two hundred years later of which Dr Samuel Johnson was the central figure.

Meeting adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)