---
title: 1891-06-02 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-06-02-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 32nd General Meeting--June 2nd 1891.

### 32nd general meeting Lehmann’s Hall. June 2nd 1891.

The thirty second general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on the platform of Lehmann’s Hall, June 2nd 1891, 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about 36 persons present.

### New committee lists given out; Club scrap books; President’s farewell address

The second Vice President distributed the new lists containing the names of Committees and Chairmen for the coming season.

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock commented on the absence of a Committee on “Art." The President thought this subject could be brought in under some other Committee.

Attention was called to the various Club scrap books, and the announcement made of Dr Alice T. Hall’s approaching marriage.

The President in her farewell address for the summer hoped that the Club might be provided with better rooms the coming winter.

### Sioussat on “Colonial Women”

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat read a paper on Colonial women, mentioning among others, Margaret and Mary Brent distinguished in St Mary’s--formerly St Thomas’--County. A vote of thanks to the President was proposed, and passed by the Club.

As the President was obliged to leave, the first Vice President took the chair for the remainder of the meeting.

### Graham--”Mary of Magdala,” read by Carter

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham’s poem “Mary of Magdala, otherwise known as Mary Magdalene” was read by Miss [Sally K.] Carter, for which the Club desired that Miss Carter would express its appreciation to Mrs. Graham who was absent.

### Richardson’s note; Congratulations to Dr Hall on her wedding

A note from Mrs. [Hester Crawford Dorsey] Richardson was read by the Secretary. It was proposed that the congratulations of the Club be sent to Dr. Alice T. Hall on her wedding day.

Miss [Edith] Duer suggested that the message be forwarded by telegram, which was decided upon.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)