---
title: 1891-05-05 Social Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-05-05-social.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[70]

## 8th Social Meeting--May 5th 1891.

### 8th Social Meeting 861 Garden St. May 5th; Proposed change in making of By-Laws and on article of Treasurer’s duties; Names of proposed members read; Lines--Stockbridge; President’s address read by Mrs. Griffin; Resolutions of thanks to President and sympathy; Musical program

The eighth social meeting--W.L.C.--was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, May 5th, at 3.30 o’clock with the 2nd Vice President in the chair, and about 40 persons present.

Secretary read minutes of last general meeting. Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge read a proposed change in the article on the making of By-Laws and an addition to the article on _Treasurer’s duties_ ([Article] 2 of Section 6.) to the Club for their (its) consideration.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin called attention of the Club to the necessity to be present the following Tuesday to vote on the plan of election that should be suggested.

Names of proposed new members read by Secretary. Mrs. Stockbridge gave some lines on a Visit of [E.C.] Stedman to Chicago.

The President’s address was read by Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin to the Club. It spoke of the broad views of the Club and dwelt especially upon the value of Committees, calling attention also to the scrap books--and also the book to be kept for “Club History."[^history]

[^history]: No such volume is extant in the WLCB papers held at the Maryland Center for History and Culture.

Resolutions of thanks to an sympathy with the President suggested by Mrs. Griffin and passed by Club, and Secretary was requested to inform President of the same.

A duett was then given by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and Mrs. (Miss?) Leakin with piano accompaniment. “He shall feed his flock like a shepherd”--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord--Miss (or Mrs) Evans--accompaniment.

“A Lullaby” by Mrs. [Alice] Yardley--contralto, Miss Evans--violin, Mrs(?) [Henry C.] Evans accompaniment. “Largo” by Handel(?)--Miss Evans violin, Mrs. Evans accompaniment. “Berceuse” Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman--contralto; “Loin du Bal” Gillet & “Rural Wedding March--Misses Evans, violins, Miss Evans violoncello, Mrs. Evans--accompaniment--

[71]

”Dearest Heart, Farewell” Strelezki--Mrs. Yardley--contralto. Moonlight--Robert--Mrs. Lord.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)