---
title: 1891-04-28 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-04-28-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 30th General Meeting--April 28th 1891.

### 30th meeting (so called!) 861 Garden St. April 28th

The thirtieth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, April 28th, at 3.30 o’clock, with the second Vice-President in the Chair.

There were about 32 persons present.

The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary.

### “Lady Suffolk”[,] Atkinson; “Usefulness of Fellowships”[,] Franklin

Mrs. [Laura] Atkinson gave an article on “Lady Suffolk”, who was once Catherine of Ellerslie, born 1518.

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] read a paper on “The Usefulness of Fellowships,” and said in the essay and in reply to questions, that a plan had been made by the woman’s association of Collegiate alumnae to collect a fund for an European fellowship, to be bestowed upon some young woman who must be a college graduate, but not necessarily a specialist. This fund is to be at least $500 a year, and subscriptions are desired. The fellowship is only given for one year to any person, unless in cases of extreme brilliancy when it might be given for three years. These graduates are to be found by means of circulars sent to all graduating colleges.

### Conversation; Discussion on showing special honor to college resident graduates, etc

During the general conversation, in speaking of women college graduates, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock thought there are some in Baltimore leading lonely lives, and Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat suggested that it would be well to keep a list of such persons that members of the Club who might, as individuals, wish to call upon them, could do so.

Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman thought this too public a method. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham suggested that some one hunt them out. Mrs. Bullock--that we wait.

[68]

Mrs. Graham moved that a Committee of three be named with Mrs. Franklin--Chairman--to find out these persons that we may show them honor.

Mrs. Franklin declined Chairmanship, and Mrs. Graham named Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge.

Mrs. Franklin moved that the Chair appoint Chairman of this Committee, and finally moved that the Club consider the subject for 7 minutes, seconded by Mrs. [Margaret] Lake. Motion adopted.

When the Club was called to order by the Presiding Officer, Mrs. Franklin moved that “it is true sentiment of the Club that as individuals we show more hospitality to intellectual strangers, but take no action as a Club."

This motion was finally passed, and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)