---
title: 1891-03-10 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-03-10-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 24th General Meeting--March 10th 1891

The twenty fourth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, March 10th at 3.30 o’clock.

In the absence of the President, the 2nd Vice-President was in the chair, and later, when obliged to leave, the meeting was presided over by the Treasurer.

### Emma Lazarus; Miss Szold

After the minutes of the last meeting had been read by the Secretary[,] Miss [Henrietta] Szold gave a paper on “Emma Lazarus." ‘Although woman’s nature is full of art, poetry, and high endurance, still she is very practical. The same strong ideality yet extreme reality and practical energy are especially noticeable in Jewish character. Emma Lazarus is less great in her earlier writings, and her article on “Disraeli” is untrue to her nation. After the Russian edict of 1882 was passed, she changed entirely--her poetry became sweeter and more earnest, her works full of practical suggestions and passionate feeling. Her aim was to find what to do with the persecuted Jews: if colonised, the new comers should be taught trades. To her surprise, she now found the Jewish heart true, warm

[46]

and even _pure_; Daniel was the Jew of the future, and Mordecai’s ideas were hers.[^daniel] Miss Szold said that repatriation is not favorable, regarded in this country, and in Russia the political barriers seem too great--the _Russian bear_ so close to Palestine and _the sick man of Turkey_ so weak. However, Hebrew is being studied in Russia and taught and spoken in Palestine to avoid the mixture of many tongues.”

[^daniel]: Daniel and Mordecai are figures from the Hebrew Bible; Daniel is known for his steadfast righteousness, while Mordecai (in whose honor the Jewish holiday of Purim is celebrated) was the adoptive father of Esther, a figure of importance to Szold (Haddassah, the name of the Jewish Zionist women’s organization Szold founded later in her life, is another name for Esther).

### "Early Mosaics" Mrs. Griffin

After conversation by the Club, Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin read a paper on “Early Mosaics”--that their recommendation is indestructibility-- they build for eternity. There are three kinds--those made from cubes of marble, from slices of marble, and from glass. During the reading of this paper, photographs of various mosaics were shown to the Club.

### "Occult Boston" Miss F. A. Doughty; "A Frenchman's Account of the Garden of Eden"

A paper on “Occult Boston” was then given by Miss Frances Albert Doughty, of Washington, D.C., speaking of that part of Boston where live one or more theosophists; Dr Mayne--the mind-reader; and Dr Ahrens] of the mind cure, to whom disease is a cancer-crab shaped image clutching the mind with its claws.[^eddy] Miss Doughty also gave “A Frenchman’s Account of the Garden of Eden."

[^eddy]: Possibly a reference to Edward J. Ahrens, erstwhile associate of Mary Baker Eddy, founder of Christian Science. The “mind cure” was a term applied to a variety of practices that applied psychological remedies for physical ailments, some of which were associated with Christian Science.

The acting President announced the subject of the next meeting “A Moral Purpose in Fiction,” and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)