---
title: 1891-01-20 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-01-20-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 18th General Meeting--January 20th 1891.

### 18th meeting 861 Garden St.; President’s New Year’s address; President’s tribute to Mrs. Tiernan; Tiernan memorial day.; Zacharias’ poem.; Miss Cloud read Mrs. Lord’s poem; Secretary read resolutions

The eighteenth meeting of W.L.C. was held on Tuesday, January 20th 1891, at 861 Garden Street, at 3.30 o’clock--President in chair--about 28 persons present. The President gave a New Year’s address to the Club stating that true talent is born of reverence and included true desire for truth and progress, and expressing the wish that the best talent of the Club may be brought out, and suggesting association in Committees as one means to this end. The President also spoke of the great power for good Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan might have had in the Club, had she lived, of the gifts of voice and speech, of her vivacity, enthusiasm, courtesy and keen interest in literature. The Club noted by motion of President that a memorial day be appointed for Mrs. Tiernan.

The President read a note from Miss [Jane] Zacharias accompanying an original poem on the death of Mrs. Tiernan. Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud then read Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord’s poem on Mrs. Tiernan, and the Secretary read the resolutions of regret adopted by the Club.

### Mrs. Graham on Woman’s Work and Progress

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham spoke on “Woman’s Work and Progress”, suggesting that the surest advance is always through the conquest of self.

[32]

### Miss C. P. [Katharine Pearson] Woods’ papers on “Woman in Church and State”

Miss [Katharine Pearson] Woods read a paper on “Woman in Church and State” -- we speak of Mother Church, Mother Country, yet men are the sole rulers, and women have no voice in the affairs of either. Some say that woman’s sphere is the four walls of home--unscientific conclusion woman’s orbit must be regulated by balance of powers within and without. The sexes agree that in Church and State men shall rule--women be ruled, yet both were created in the image of God. The dual principle ignored exerts itself in disease and divorce. Woman, as the uncompromising holder of ideas, the world misses in leaving out woman. Man will not be the heaven-father to his household, the woman must become so. We see the dual nature in her: the heaven-father to her children, for then she must go out into the world and protect them at the polls from disease and death. Woman’s presence must purify commerce and make the state religious, that the dual nature may also come into Church and State. She should not be parish priest; for man is the priest--woman the prophet--and both should lead onto victory.

### Dr Mark spoke on women.; Class in Political Economy

Dr [Nellie V.] Mark spoke next. She approved of women as ministers and at the polls, though they cannot be injured by voting, and need not fear disrespect at the polls, as was proved in Boston when they voted on the school question.

The President announced the subject of the next meeting, and stated that a class in Political Economy would be formed and would be open to all.

### Reception to Miss Dorsey proposed.; Motion on wedding gift.

The proposition that the Club give a reception to Miss H.C. Dorsey [Hester Crawford Dorsey Richardson] after her wedding was made by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], seconded by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter and passed.

Also the mention that the Club give some little remembrance to

[33]

Miss Dorsey was passed.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)