---
title: 1891-02-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-02-17-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[40]
## 21st General Meeting--February 17th 1891

The twenty-first general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, February 17th, at 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. There were about 33 persons present.

A note was read to the Club by the President from Mrs. Brune[?]--sister to Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan.

By Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham’s suggestion, it was decided that the following Tuesday should be kept as a Longfellow Memorial Day.

The announcement of the Reading by Mrs. [Sarah] Cowell Lemoyne for the benefit of the “Home for Mothers and Infants” was made as a special notice by the President. Two poems “Sunlight” and “Pain”, written by one of our Honorary members-Miss Grace Denio Litchfield- were read by Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud and Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter’s poem “Antigone” was read by Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman. Miss Lizette Woodworth Reese gave a paper on “A little-known Poet”- Henry Timrod, born in Charleston S.C. 1829, died 1867.

Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud gave a paper on “Nursery Rhymes” referring--also--to the lullabies of nations.

The President read two original poems--“A Hymn to Old Age” written to her own grandmother, and “A Lyric of Love and Life."

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock read original verses: “A Honeymoon in the Farnese Gardens."

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham moved that each member be allowed on Tuesday to invite a friend interested in Longfellow. Motion not carried, as President stated such was not the habit of the Club.

[41]

Mrs. Graham presented to Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, Chairman of the Poetry Committee, for the “Poet’s Corner,” “A Valentine Greeting” from Mrs. Graham and Mrs. [Alice] Yardley--being a booklet entitled “A Captive Rose”--words by Mrs. Graham--illustrations by Mrs. Yardley.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely 
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)