---
title: 1891-05-21 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-05-21-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[75]

## Board Meeting--May 21st 1891.
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 75-76]

### Meeting Board of Management 1530 Park Avenue May 21st 1891; List of Committees; Special days for Committees suggested; on selection of Club rooms; On Constitution; Board meetings; 5 Residents of City only to be admitted to any Club meetings; Treasurer’s accounts

A meeting of the Board of Management of W.L.C. elected May 19th, was held at 1530 Park Avenue, May 21st 1891 about 11 o’clock, with the President in the chair and 7 members present.

The President brought up subjects of Committees and the former list was somewhat altered. “Current Criticism” was added--this Committee to notice books of the passing hour; Poetry was divided into three parts: “Modern Poetry” Chairman Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese; and by Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin's suggestion, the other divisions were called “Classic Poetry” and “Mediaeval Poetry."

The Secretary suggested that especial days for Committees should be named beforehand. The President thought better not as yet. Miss Charlotte [de Macklot] Thompson suggested a Committee on the “History of Maryland."

The President proposed that for next winter the Club should rent the “Sun Parlor” of the Altamont Hotel at five dollars for each meeting, twenty dollars for each social meeting--the last sum to include refreshments. This it was decided to do, if upon enquiry, the heating arrangements should be found adequate.

The President also hoped that the Club may some day have rooms in the proposed Art Club, and mentioned kind offers of rooms made to W.L.C.--one of which was by the Academy of Sciences through Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat.

The minutes of three meetings of the Board of Management on April 22nd, May 5th, and May 13th read by Secretary and approved by Board.

Enquiry by President on Section 3 of Article VI. of Constitution mentioned in minutes of April 22nd showed that some amendments had not apparently been presented

[76]

to the Club for approval.

Secretary gave as the reason, that one of those present at the early meetings had looked upon them as “clerical omissions” as they formed part of the University Club Constitution by which the Woman’s Literary Club Constitution had been framed.[^JHU]

[^JHU]: Probably a reference to the Johns Hopkins University faculty club, which was formed in 1880.

The President thought this insufficient, as some parts of the University Club Constitution had not been used.

The Section named, and others not voted upon by the Club were for this cause declared unconstitutional, and as the majority of the Board did not wish to continue the added clause in Section 3. Article VI. and the Section 1 of Article III. on “Board Meetings,” it was decided to erase them from the Constitution.

The four By-Laws were read, and number 3 was changed by vote so that only five residents of Baltimore instead of ten may be admitted as guests to any one Club meeting.

The Treasurer asked who should keep the accounts when filed. The President thought the Treasurer should take charge of them.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Approved.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)