---
title: 1891-03-24 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-03-24-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[53]

## 26th General Meeting--March 24th 1891

### 26th general meeting 861 Garden St. March 24th; Constitutional changes proposed; Motion--Franklin; Addition to Section 6 of Article IV; Suggestion, President: Book of Club papers and poems; Discussion; Magazine of Club suggested; Historian perhaps; Club birthday; Motion on Constitutional clauses to be read “Salon” day; Paper--Balch read by Miller; On election of Board of Management; Motion--Franklin[,] elect 2 officers “today”; Motion--Colvin[,] Committee to investigate election methods; 2 members Executive Committee elected   

The twenty sixth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, on Tuesday afternoon, March 24th, at 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. About 28 persons were present.

The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary. The President presented to the Club for consideration certain proposed changes in the Constitution, namely: an addition to Section 6 of Article II; the omission of Section 1 of Article III on the Literary Committee; the substitution of Sections 5, 6, 7 of Article IV on Elections of new members for the old Sections 5 and 6; and the addition of Section 9 of Article IV on Honorary Membership.

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] moved that the following addition be made to Section 6 of Article IV, “Any member of the Club who has objections to the admission of such new members shall communicate them to some member of the Board of Management, and the Board shall then reconsider its action.”

The President suggested that a book be published during the coming summer, containing the best articles, with poems, read at the Club during the working season, that the choice of matter be made without favoritism on a literary basis, that the Club may mark the best papers in a printed list of all that may have been read “good, bad, or indifferent,” and that the final selection be given in charge to a special Committee.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham proposed to postpone publishing until later, except one or two papers.

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock thought the Club could more certainly select the best papers if the list contained three divisions, marked

[54]

“Approved,” “Not Approved,” and “Not heard,” as the attendance is uncertain.

Mrs. Graham proposed a magazine of our own. Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson asked if any provision had been made to keep the spoken thought of the Club.

The President hoped that the Club may have a historian; and suggested that the birthday of the Club be kept on the last Tuesday in April.

Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese thought the Club rather young to publish. Mrs. Franklin said “Not individually; that more depends on excellence of work than age of Club." Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin enquired about the expense of such a book. The President thought that would be partly covered by the members of the Club, many of whom would probably wish to have one or more copies. The motion passed to read the proposed clauses of the Constitution on the following Tuesday although a “Salon” day.

Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller read Miss [Grace] Balch’s paper on “George Eliot”, speaking of her parentage and early life, contrasting her writings with those of [Elizabeth Barrett] Browning, and saying that she desired to advance woman educationally rather than politically.

Mrs. Colvin enquired about the mode of electing members of the Board of Management.

The Secretary suggested the Crawford system of free nominations.[^election]

[^election]: The direct nomination of primary candidates by popular vote (as opposed to convention) was proposed in Crawford County, PA, in 1842, and was adopted in some form by all 50 states in the U.S. (See Paul H. Giddens, “The Origin of the Direct Primary,” Western Pennsylvania Historical Magazine 60.2 (April 1977): 145-158.

Mrs. Franklin moved that we elect two officers “today,” seconded by Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge. Mrs. Colvin moved that a Committee of one be appointed to investigate methods of election in use at Clubs and report to the W.L. Club on the first of April--seconded by Mrs. Stockbridge. The Club then voted by ballot

[55]

for two members of the Executive Committee, resulting in the election of Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin and Mrs. Colvin.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)