---
title: 1891-05-12 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-05-12-meeting.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 31st General Meeting--May 12th 1891.

### 31st general meeting 861 Garden St. May 12th; Alterations made in Constitution on By-Laws and Treasurer’s Report; Names new members read--2nd time; Plan of election day; Committee on Authors and Artists of Maryland; Paper--Mrs. A. Smith “Maryland’s Natural Resources for Culture and Art."; Paper--Milnor “Earliest Maryland Writings."’ Paper--Atkinson “Charles Wilson Peel” [impenetrable]; Article--Tait on Maryland artists.; Easter--poem “A Summer Blow."

The thirty first general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 861 Garden Street, Tuesday afternoon May 12th, with the second Vice President in the chair. There were about 32 persons present. Minutes of last meeting were read by Secretary.

Alterations in Sections of Constitution on By-Laws, and Treasurer’s Report read by Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge and passed by Club.

Names of new members read by Secretary for the second time, and the plan of election day was read by second Vice President.

The literary work of the day was in charge of Mrs. Alan Smith, Chairman of the Committee of “Authors and Artists of Maryland."

A paper was read by Mrs. Smith on “Maryland’s Natural Resources for Culture and Art,” speaking of the antiquity of the state, its numerous resources, among which are its useful marbles.

Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor read an article called “Earliest Maryland Writings”--the first publication in 1596--the most ancient Maryland document in 1633--the Calvert papers--the writings of Frederick Calvert--Reverend William McSherry--Father White--George Alsopp--&c.

Mrs. Robert Atkinson’s paper was on “Charles Wilson Peel” [Charles Willson Peale] who was taught by Heselius, and painted beautiful miniatures. Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait's article called attention to many Maryland artists--to Anna(?) Peel [Anna Claypoole Peale], Charles Boyle, Alfred J. Miller[,] a pupil of [Thomas] Sully, R.C. Woodville, and the great sculptor William Rinehart.[^Rinehart]

[^Rinehart]:Charles Willson Peale (1741-1827) is perhaps best known for his portraits of George Washington (1779) and other figures of the Revolutionary War. He also founded one of the first—if not the first— natural history museums in the US, the Philadelphia Museum (familiarly known as Peale’s American Museum) in 1801. Peale’s first instructor was the portraitist John Hesselius (1728-1778), who worked predominantly in Maryland and Virginia. Peale’s niece, Anna Claypoole Peale (1791-1878), was also a respected painter, along with her sister Sarah Miriam Peale (1800-1885). Alfred Jacob Miller (1810-1874) was born in Baltimore and identified with the Hudson River School painters; he was best known for his depictions of frontiersmen and indigenous people. Atkinson’s paper most likely treated the work of Richard Caton Woodville (1825-1855), a short-lived genre painter from Baltimore whose London-born son, Richard Caton Woodville, Jr. (1856-1927), achieved much greater success as an illustrator/painter of military scenes for the British magazine press. The neoclassical sculptures of William Henry Rinehart (1825-1874) are featured at the US Post Office and the US Capitol, as well as many major museum collections. The Rinehart School of Sculpture at the Maryland Institute College of Art is named after Rinehart, a distinguished alumnus.

Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter read a poem called “A Summer Blow."[^blow] Mrs. Smith called attention to various portraits, etc., that had been brought to the Club

[^blow]: “A Summer Blow” was published in _[Clytie and Other Poems](https://www.google.com/books/edition/Clytie_and_Other_Poems/8do_AAAAYAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&pg=PP7&printsec=frontcover)_ (Boston: A.J. Philpott, 1891).

[73]

to illustrate the subject of the day.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)