---
title: 1891-02-17 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-02-17-BOM.html
season: first
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[39]

## Board Meeting--February 17th 1891
[Book I, MS 988, Box 3, p. 39]

A meeting of the Board of Management of W.L.C. was called for 2.30 o’clock P.M., Tuesday afternoon, February 17th at 861 Garden Street.

The President in the chair. Members of the Executive Board present 7.

### New names. Proposer's & Seconder's [sic] names to be Kept.

Names of new members were proposed and voted upon. Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], Treasurer, moved that the names of proposer and seconder of names of new members be preserved by the Secretary. Passed.

### Tutwiler's offer of rooms

The Secretary announced that Mrs. [Julia R.] Tutwiler had offered her rooms free to the Club for the remainder of the season. Answer postponed until the next meeting of the Committee.

### On changing name of Club; Vacancies on Board; Vacancies in Chairmen of Com[mitt]ees; Printing Cons[titutio]n deferred.

Vote taken as to the name of the Club--whether it should be changed from Woman’s Literary Club to Women’s Literary Club. Majority voted for no change. Mrs. Franklin moved that the vacancies in the Board of Management be filled at once. Majority voted otherwise for the present, as there is danger of another vacancy.

Action on the election of Chairman for certain vacancies deferred.

Printing of the Constitution also deferred.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afirst)