---
title: 1891-10-13 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-10-13-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[88]

## Board Meeting--October 13th 1891.

### Board of Management meeting 12 E. Centre St. October 13th; Payment of dues to Academy of Science; Discussion on Residents as guests of Club; Haughton--for Salon; Lord--Memorial table; Committee meeting

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, October 13th, about 3 o’clock.

The President was in the chair and eight (8) members were present.

The Secretary read the minutes of the Board meetings of May 21st and September 26th which were approved.

The President thought the dues of the Club for associate membership in the Academy of Sciences should be paid from the Club funds.

Question was put by the President whether Mrs. [Alice] Yardley should be invited as guest of the Club for the coming winter as a courtesy to our active member Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham.

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin thought that others might apply for the same privilege.

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat suggested that a fixed number of persons be admitted as guests.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin proposed an immediate vote upon the special case.

Question postponed by President for want of time.

President also reminded Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton to take charge of the Salon tea, and appointed Mrs. Lord to decorate the memorial table for Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan on the following Tuesday.

A special meeting of the Committee was called after the

[89]

general meeting of October 13th to attend to the programme for October 20th. Miss Haughton was appointed a Committee of one to purchase two teapots for the Club Salons.

The President named the first Tuesday in November--2.30 o’clock[--]for the next Executive meeting.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

Corrected and Approved by Board November 10th.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)