---
title: 1891-12-08 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-12-08-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[109]

## Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore.
## Meeting on December 8th, 1891.

### 39th meeting December 8th 1891.; Subs[criptions] for janitress

The Club met and was called to order by the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

On account of the absence of our Secretary, Miss [Eliza] Ridgely, the reading of the minutes of the meeting on December 1st was omitted.

The President, in a few words reminded the Club of the subscription which had been begun for the Janitress of the building in which we meet, to replace her sewing-machine, lost by a recent fire.

### Pres[ident]--Article on “Modern Poetry Committee”

The first Article was by Mrs. Turnbull: “A Few Notes on Behalf of the Modern Poetry Committee.”

She spoke of having written in haste, and said: that Mr [Edmund Clarence] Steadman [Stedman] had been accorded ample time before speaking on a subject to which he had given his life;--“and how could an amateur, at a week’s notice, say what she thought about a subject very dear to her?”

She spoke of poetry in its nature, its infancy, its noblest and highest work, its creative touch and its divine power. “As men of science have sought in vain for a definition of life, so even poets have vainly struggled to define poetry. True art has its vital qualities, and may be as elusive as life.” We were reminded that, often “it is not the man that creates the poetry, but the poetry that creates the man,”--the poet. That to the question: “What is poetry?”--the answer has been given; “The expression of inspired thought in rhythmical language.” Also of the comment that; “The antithesis of poetry is not prose,--but science.”

But that all true inspiration is related, is complementary,

[110]

rather than antithetical. That “the universal art, music, is independent of language, and as far above painting as life is above pictures.” That “the poet’s divine art appeals to the inner depths of our natures, and stirs our own creative instincts.” That it appeals to the childhood of all nations, and to the childhood of individuals; to “the aged who have the best love in sight,” and “are ready to go up higher.” That “the true poet is the prophet, the seer, and ought always to be in advance of his age,” and this we look for in the creators of Modern Poetry.

“That all singers are not poets,” but “genius has its own true brotherhood, through all the ages,” and “with enduring speech of truth and beauty, it shall show us the value of our inheritance” and raise us to an ideal life.

### Mrs. Easter “Ode to Joseph Rodman Drake”; on his grave; Mrs. Miller on a visit to the poet’s grave

Mrs. Marguerite E. Easter next gave us an original “Ode to Joseph Rodman Drake.” It spoke of his early promise and his early death; how “like Keats and Shelley, he has left us such work, that we know not what he might have left us.” She spoke of standing under the tree that droops over his grave, and “giving tribute to the poet never dead to nature’s cries.”

But that “negligence entombs this poet’s dust;” and his grave looks lonely and un-visited.

Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller also gave an account of a visit she had made to the grave of this same poet, of whom it was said: “None knew him but to love him,

<poetry>None named him but to praise!”</poetry>

She was shocked at its neglected state but she has since learned that it is to be repaired and restored.

[111]

### Miss Cloud’s poems “Her Picture” and “Rest.”; Mrs. Easter on “Oliver Goldsmith”

Miss Cloud [Virginia Woodward Cloud], whom we are always glad to hear read, then gave use two original poems. The first was called “Her Picture.” It was of a picture “whose eyes hold heaven’s light;” though somewhere, above the woman’s eyes “the grass is growing now.” The other was called; “Rest.” It was on rest,--in the midst of all sweetest things.”

Mrs. Easter next gave us; “Some Discursive Notes on Oliver Goldsmith.” She treated him lovingly, though she told us of his “frank lack of common sense; of “the irrepressible ‘Paddy’ in his nature,” of “his bull-dog face,” of his “want of a high standard of conduct;” of his “wandering homelessly like Dickens’s ‘poor Jo’, and, like him, being continuously told to--“move on!”” Also, of his “boundless charity and forgetfulness of his own necessities in those of other people.” She said that we are sometimes told that “his works are read, and his life forgotten.”

But that in his life were deeds of such unselfish goodness, that “if they did not open Heaven’s gate to him,” they made him loved in life, and mourned in death. She thought “perhaps he needed some exalted woman’s love” to complete his character. “There is nothing in his works like Cowper’s “Address to his Mother’s Picture.”” Truly, we can never forget Goldsmith’s description of his father, the village preacher; “the cliff that”--

<poetry-indent:4>
“    --midway leaves the storm,
Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread,</poetry-indent:4> 
<poetry>Eternal sunshine settles on its head.”</poetry>

We may fear that his mother could not have inspired a similar tribute.

Mrs. Easter spoke of the irresistible charm of Goldsmith’s

[112]

works,--of his having “attempted many styles, and adorned them all.” She thought that the power of “passion was wanting to make him a great poet.” Still that “there is genuine sentiment,--that almost satisfies”; and that “he is the first of the minor poets.”

### President read poem by Miss Litchfield “To the Cicada Septemdecim”; Miss Reese’s Poem: “Her Last Word.”

We next enjoyed hearing Mrs. Turnbull read a poem written by her sister, Miss Grace Denio Litchfield. It was: “To the Cicada Septemdecim.” It spoke of “the dead present,--and past”; of “the dream that could not be dreamed,--and, yet, was true;” and of the “going forth, winged, to an undreamed of life.”

The last reading was by Miss Lizette Woodworth Reese, of one of her poems which is to be published in Scribner’s Magazine. It was called “Her Last Word.” It seems to be a sweet, suggestive half-showing of a woman’s feeling for her former lover: as to whether he shall remember--or forget her.

The Club adjourned; to meet again on Tuesday, December 15th 1891.

The minutes immediately preceding were taken from those given by Miss [Lydia] Crane to the Secretary, and read by Miss Crane at the general meeting on December 15th 1891.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)