---
title: 1891-10-20 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-10-20-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 34th General Meeting--October 20th 1891.

### 34th general meeting 12 East Centre St. October 20th; Tiernan Memorial Day

The thirty fourth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, October 20th, about 3.30 o’clock.

There were about fifty (50) persons present, with the President in the chair.

The day was kept as a memorial for Mrs. Mary Spear Tiernan.

### President on Mrs. Tiernan; ; Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor on Mrs. Tiernan; Mrs. Tiernan’s works presented to Club--President

The President referred to Mrs. Tiernan as one of the original members of the Club, and as a woman of noble presence, courtesy and unfailing vivacity, possessing range of reading, suggestiveness and ability to stimulate others, as well as a power of literary expression, a voice and manner which made her our most gifted speaker.

The President stated that last spring two members of the Club had been chosen to make a list and critical estimate of Mrs. Tiernan’s books.

### Miss Crane’s paper on Mrs. Tiernan; Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor’s booklet; motion of thanks

Miss Lydia Crane read a paper on Mrs. Mary Spear Tiernan, speaking of her personality and writings.

She began to write in October 1868; her first story was published in “The Sun” of January 12th 1878, and her last in “The Century” of February 1889. She died January 13th 1891. Her three novels--”Homoselle,” “Suzette” and “Jack Horner” were published in 1881, 1885, and 1890.

Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor spoke of Mrs. Tiernan’s nobility of character, intense sympathy, and of the lesson of earnest labor

[91]

that might be taught by her life.

The President presented Mrs. Tiernan’s three novels to the Club, and announced that Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor had given a booklet with selections from Mrs. Tiernan’s works.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, seconded by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, proposed a motion of thanks to the President and Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor for their gifts.

### Readings by Misses Cloud and Crane; Original poems on Mrs. Tiernan by Mrs. Lord, Mrs. Easter, Mrs. Graham and Miss Zacharias; Reading by Miss Crane

Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud read selections from “Jack Horner,” and Miss Crane read from Mrs. Tiernan’s unpublished writings a fragment on Old Plantation Life which had been lent by Dr Adams.

Original poems on Mrs. Tiernan were read:

by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord “In Memoriam of Mary Spear Tiernan”; by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter “So will we think of thee”; by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham on “Truth-tellers of Fiction”--a tribute on a conversation with Mrs. Tiernan upon Homoselle”; and by Miss [Jane] Zacharias “On Expression,” referring to the last address made to the Club by Mrs. Tiernan.

Miss Crane read “The Lost Music Lesson” from “Homoselle.”

Adjourned.
Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)