---
title: 1891-11-03 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-11-03-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[92]

## Board Meeting--November 3rd 1891.

### Board of Management meeting 12 E. Centre St. November 3rd 1891.

A meeting of the Board of Management--W.L.C.--was held at 12 East Centre Street, Tuesday afternoon, November 3rd about 3 o’clock.

There were nine (9) members present with the President in the chair.

The reading of minutes of last Board meeting was postponed by President on account of shortness of time.

### On re-admission of Club members after necessary absence; (Limit Club membership?); May be re-elected on return by Board of Management; Not necessary to announce to Club; May be re-elected; Are such absent members non-resident or are they dropped from list?

The subject was discussed whether members who could not attend the Club meetings on account of protracted illness or necessary absence from the City might be dropped from the Club list and re-admitted on their return.

The President suggested that we might at some future time limit the Club membership--perhaps to one hundred--and in such case, if half the members should leave the City, we should not have funds sufficient to cover Club expenses. Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson, seconded by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, asked that the question be put, which the President did in effect as follows, “Shall we permit those ladies who consider that they have sufficient reasons for absence from the Club to continue members?”

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat proposed the amendment that such persons shall be extraneous to limitation.

The Treasurer thought that no limitation of numbers enters into the present question.

The President agreed with the Treasurer the question of limitations and thought with Mrs. Sioussat that members absent from good cause should on return, be re-elected by the Board of Management, not by the Club.

Treasurer asked if this meant that the names of persons returning should not be announced to the Club.

This seemed the view of the Board.

[93]

Miss [Henrietta] Szold remarked that this brings the question to individual cases.

The Secretary asked whether such absent members should be classed as non-resident with half dues or should be entirely dropped.

Miss Szold thought if allowed to leave on account of illness or absence with good cause, the Committee must pass upon such cause in re-admitting them.

The President thought it difficult to examine into real cause, and that they should be either termed non-resident members, or absolutely dropped and re-elected by the Committee.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord thought that at time of re-election, the cause of absence could be enquired into.

### Matter referred to next meeting; Committee on Invitation postponed

The Secretary asked that the decision be put into the By-Laws, and was requested by the President to frame it and present it to the Board and the next meeting.

The President also hoped that in the admission of new members, only those would be chosen who would raise the standard of the Club.

The Secretary thought members should be chosen strictly by Constitutional rule, and asked the President to appoint a Committee on Invitation in accordance with the Constitution.

Appointment postponed by the President until the next meeting which was fixed for the following Tuesday at 2.30 o’clock.

### Insurance on Club property; Aid to janitress

The President suggested that we should have an insurance on the Club property, and that we might help the janitress who has been put to heavy loss by recent fire in the building.

Mrs. Sioussat and Miss Szold thought we might do something for her, and Miss Szold agreed to find out if the Academy of Sciences would assist her.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Approved by Board November 10th.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)