---
title: 1891-11-03 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-11-03-minutes.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[94]

## 35th General Meeting--November 3rd 1891.

### 35th meeting 12 E. Centre St. November 3rd 1891

The thirty fifth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon November 3rd, 3.30 o’clock.

The President was in the chair, and there were about twenty nine (29) persons present, among whom was Mrs. Frances H. Easby of the New Century Club of Philadelphia and former Secretary of the Club for the Advancement of Women.

The minutes of the meetings of October 13th, 20th, and 27th were read by the Secretary and approved.

### Letter from Mrs. O. Thorne Miller; Mrs. Latimer’s new book.; Article on “Dues”

The Secretary also read a letter from an honorary member Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller--accepting the President’s invitation to read a paper to the Club if in Baltimore this winter, and extending the hospitalities of the New York Clubs to the Woman’s Literary Club.

The President announced two courses of lectures to be given by Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer on “English Historical Gossip” and “English Poets”--also spoke of Mrs. Latimer’s new book on “Historical Gossip,” and of Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese and Sidney Lanier.

The President also asked to be informed of any work prepared for the Club, that the programmes may be more uniformly arranged.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham asked if any Committee of History existed, as she had been asked to present for membership certain former members of a historical society. The President named the Committee on “Authors and Artists of Maryland,” as the only historical Committee, and said the voting upon members would take place later.

The President also called attention in the name of the Treasurer to the constitutional article on “Dues.”

### Volck on Etching, etc.; “Ramble among Burins and Needles”

Miss [Annie C.] Volck preluded her paper on “A Ramble among Burins and Needles” with a hasty sketch on the making

[95]

of etchings. Engraving is the older art and was first done on copper--then on steel. The tool used is a burin or graver. Etching is done as follows. A plate is prepared either of zinc for coarse work, or copper for fine work--especially beaten--not rolled--copper. The etching ground consisting often of a certain preparation of wax, is spread on the plate and the picture drawn with the etching needle. The plate is then placed in the bath or “mordant” consisting frequently of hydrochloric acid and water, and is there _bitten_  by the acid whence the name of the art “etching” from the old German verb “etzen,” to bite. On removal from the bath more etching ground is added and certain lighter lines are stopped up with the wax. The plate is then put back into the acid to deepen the darker lines, and this process is repeated until the lines are rightly bitten, when the plate is taken out, the ground removed, and the etching printed. Artists sometimes print their own etchings. The berceau is a curved instrument used to plough up the surface of the copper--or raise the burr. A soft ground engraving has paper spread between the ground and the instrument. An artist’s proof always bears the artist’s re-mark upon it.--

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock requested that her paper might be dropped from the day’s programme to enable Miss Volck to continue her subject. Upon request of the President Miss Volck read her paper, in which she described an engraving as _incised_, an etching as _bitten_, spoke of celebrated engravers and etchers--mentioning Rembrandt as a “god in art,” and declared that etching is worthy of the greatest work of the finest artists.

The President announced the programme of the next meeting and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Approved.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)