---
title: 1891-12-01 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-12-01-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[104]

## 38th General Meeting--December 1st 1891.

### 38th Meeting 12 E. Centre St. December 1st 1891; Committee “Mediaeval Poetry”

The thirty eighth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon December 1st, 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about thirty two (32) persons present among whom was Miss Green of Boston.

The minutes of the meetings of November 17th and 24th were read by the Secretary.

The President announced that on account of illness, Miss [Elizabeth T.] King would not be able to give her paper at the meeting.

### Latimer’s paper “The Great Love Story of XIII. Century”; Tutwiler’s paper on “Dante--a Florentine Study”; Masque of Dante and picture of Giotto

Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer’s article was entitled “The Great Love Story of the XIIIth Century,” being an account of the romance of Dante’s life. In some lines on the death of Beatrice in the “Vita Nuova,” we see the first glimpse of his “Inferno,” and only after her death (was) he willing to speak openly of her, and indeed vowed to speak more worthily of his “most blessed lady.”

Mrs. [Julia R.] Tutwiler, Chairman of the Committee on “Mediaeval Poetry”[,] read a paper on “Dante, a Florentine Study” which she intended as a supplement to Mrs. Latimer’s and Miss King’s papers, and as an introduction to Mediaeval Poetry. Mrs. Tutwiler spoke of Dante’s political views, of his impassioned soul, intelligence, courage and undoubtful early acquaintance with no law but that of righteousness; tracing also the history of the commonwealth of Florence; speaking of Dante’s exile, and referring to the great honor now done him by his native city.

By the President’s request, Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin called attention to the masque of Dante which she had brought to the Club for the day, (and a small picture done by Giotto was shown).

An Englishman, Mr Kirker obtained permission to uncover this and other frescoes, removing the whitewash which had hidden them.  said she had met Mr Kirker who had become a spiritualist, and that he had presented her with a dress which he claimed had been Dante’s.  painted a large picture of ‘Dante expecting Beatrice’, which she would be glad to have any one see.

The President announced that two excellent papers on “Lanier” had been read at a literary society in Richmond when she had also made a contribution upon the subject.

### “Life” refers to scheme to collect Maryland Authors works

The President gave the programme for the following week, and spoke of the reference made by “Life” [Magazine] to the effort of the Woman’s Literary Club to collect the works of our authors.

Adjourned.
Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)