---
title: 1891-12-15 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-12-15-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[113]

## Board Meeting--December 15th 1891.

### Board of Management meeting 12 E. Centre Street December 15th 1891; Shall fund [text illegible] for janitress be taken from Club treasury?; Committee to attend to matter of janitress; Meeting to be held in Christmas week; Salon first Tuesday in December; Subject of “weekly postals” postponed.

A meeting of the Board of Management--W.L.C.--was held at 12 East Centre Street, Tuesday afternoon, December 15th 1891 after 2.30 o’clock, with the first Vice-President in the Chair. Eight (8) members present.

The question was discussed whether the remainder of the amount needed to buy a sewing machine for the janitress should be made up from the Club funds, and finally decided in the negative, as Miss [Henrietta] Szold and others thought such action would be a bad precedent.

Miss [Rebecca] Griffin and Miss Szold agreed to act as a Committee to attend to the matter at once, using the money in hand as seemed most suitable.

It was decided that the meeting on the Tuesday following (December 22nd) should not be postponed on account of Christmas week, and that the Salon should be held as usual the last Tuesday in December.

The question whether weekly postal cards should be sent was postponed on account of the President’s absence.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

Adopted by the Board January 5th 1892.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)