---
title: 1891-12-30 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-12-30-salon.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[116]

## 13th Salon--December 29th 1891.

### 13th Salon 12 E. Centre Street December 29th 1891.; President--sketch of Mrs. D. Dandridge

The thirteenth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, December 29th, at 3.30 o’clock.

The President was in the chair and there were about twenty seven (27) members present.

The President read a sketch of the life of Mrs. Danske Dandridge [Caroline "Danske" Dandridge] the poetess.

### Shall Club discuss “whether woman has produced anything that will live--as in literature, art, music”?

The question was started whether the Club should have a discussion upon an article in “The Critic” which seemed to doubt if woman had produced anything that would live.

It was suggested that we should give a Salon evening to the matter; again suggested that we should spend three Salons upon the subject; also that we should discuss the subject in detail, namely:--whether woman had created anything lasting in literature, or in art, or in music. It was also proposed to give the two sides of the question in charge of two members, to whom a Chairman was added. The matter seemed not clearly understood, and it was decided that the Club should read the “Critic”’s article either before next Tuesday as individuals, or that it should be read to the Club at that time.

### Miller--poem by Mrs. Fulton “On the Old Year”; Crane read Easter’s story of “Waiting Will.”; Refreshments served.

Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller read a poem “On the Old Year,” written by Mrs. Fulton of Denver, Colorado.

A story called “Waiting Will” was read by Miss [Lydia] Crane, and the President asked the Club to name the writer. Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller alone was successful--naming Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter.

Refreshments were served, and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)