---
title: 1891-09-26 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-09-26-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[84]

## Board Meeting--September 26th 1891.

### Meeting Board of Management 12 E. Centre Street September 26th 1891.; On meeting room for Club; 12 E. Centre St. accepted size

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman’s Literary Club was held in the building of the Academy of Sciences--12 East Centre Street, on Saturday morning, September 26th, 1891, about 11 o’clock, with the President in the chair.

There were 8 members present.

The important question was discussed of choosing a room for the meetings of the Club during the coming season, and the offer made by the Academy of Sciences through Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, was considered and accepted. By this offer, the Club is given the use of one larger room capable of holding more than fifty chairs and of other smaller rooms, and it is requested that all the members of the Woman’s Literary Club will in return become adjunct or associate members of the Academy of Sciences at the rate of $1 each per year. The President feared we may not be sufficiently scientific to deserve admission to this association, but was informed by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat that we were only asked to be adjunct members, which removed the difficulty. The President put to vote the question “Shall the courtesy of the President of the Academy of Sciences be accepted by the Woman’s Literary Club?” Carried without dissent.

### Terms; Improvements; Temporary House Committee

It was proposed by the President and decided that the Woman’s Literary Club furnish a carpet for the larger room, and also paper the walls, that the Club colors be remembered in the selections made, and that if the Club vacate these rooms, both these improvements shall be the property of the Academy of Sciences.

It was decided to buy slowly much of the furniture needed for the Club, but to provide at once six chairs for the Officers and Executive Committee, curtain drapery, a table cover and a secretary.

Mrs. Sioussat and Mrs. Lord [Alice Emma Sauerwein Lord] were appointed by the President a temporary House Committee to make the various purchases.

### Salon October 6th; Suggested monthly House Committee; “Teas” charge of 2nd V.P.; No set sum to House Committee

It was decided to have a Salon without refreshments on October 6th.

The President suggested that a new House Committee be named for each month, and appointed the second Vice President to take charge of the “teas” as heretofore.

The Treasurer asked if a fixed sum would be allowed to the House Committee. The President thought not.

Mrs. Sioussat wished to know if she should send the bills to the Treasurer, and was requested by the Treasurer to approve them before forwarding them. The President asked that they might be sent through her; and informed the Secretary that Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent and Miss Bond are still members of the Club.

### Franklin desires to be dropped from roll during absence; Secretary allowed to have printed cards meeting days

The Treasurer stated that Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] (former Club Treasurer) desired to be dropped from the members’ roll during her year of absence. The President asked postponement of decision in this matter until the Committee meeting October 13th.

The Secretary requested to be authorized to have printed at once cards of meeting days for the season. Allowed.

The President appointed October 13th, 2.30 o’clock, for the next meeting of the Executive Committee.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Approved by Board.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)