---
title: 1891-11-10 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-11-10-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[96]

## Board Meeting--November 10th 1891.

### Board of Management 12 East Centre St. November 10th 1891.; On--members unavoidably absent from Club meetings; Not yet added to By-Laws; Appropriation asked to tea table; November House Committee; Subs. for janitress

A meeting of the Board of Management was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, November 10th, after 2.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair and nine (9) members present.

The minutes of the meetings of October 13th were corrected and approved and those of November 3rd approved. The words “prolonged” and “upon her request” were by the President added to the form presented by the Secretary on “members unavoidably absent from the Club meetings,” which then read as follows: “Any member unable to attend the Club meetings on account of prolonged illness or absence from the City may be dropped from the Club list upon her request, and re-admitted on her return by vote of the Board of Management.

Such a person may if she should prefer it, be classed as a non-resident member.”

The President asked that this addition be not made by the By-Laws at present; and no action was taken.

The Treasurer made the request for the second Vice-President that an appropriation be set aside (allowed) for the Salon tea table--which was done.

The President appointed Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord and Miss Mary Willcox Brown the House Committee for November.

It was decided to take up a voluntary contribution from the Club for the janitress, and the Secretary was requested to notify absent members of the plan.

### Plan to collect works of Maryland writers

The President suggested that we make an effort to secure a Maryland library for the Club, consisting of the books and pamphlets of those who have lived or written in Maryland. Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat thought Dr John Morris has made a collection of such pamphlets at the Peabody.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin said that we might confine ourselves to books.

### Cover for tea table; Committee on Invitation appointed; Non-resident guests of members may attend meetings?; Also distinguished strangers may be brought without invitation?; Residents may come again to hear special paper; Reports to newspapers.

The President suggested that the younger ladies make a cover for the tea table with a flower and the name of each person embroidered upon it by herself. Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson asked for a Chairman, and the President thought Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton would attend to the matter.

The Secretary asked for a Committee on Invitation. The President appointed Mrs. Colvin. The President thought concerning guests, that all non-resident guests of members--whether literary or otherwise--and all distinguished strangers may be brought without obtaining invitations.

Mrs. Sioussat thought of course if a resident of Baltimore, not a member, should be asked to hear a certain paper and the paper were postponed, such a guest could be again invited when the paper should be read. The Board seemed to hold the same view.

In a consultation on the reports of Club meetings to newspapers, Mrs. Colvin suggested a censor.

No action was taken.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Approved by Board.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)