---
title: 1891-10-06 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-10-06-salon.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[86]

## 10th Salon--October 6th 1891.

### 10th Salon 12 E. Centre St. October 6th

The tenth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, and first of the autumn of 1891 was held at 12 East Centre Street, in the rooms of the Academy of Sciences, on Tuesday afternoon, October 6th, after 3.30 o’clock.

The President was in the chair, and there were about thirty one (31) persons present.

### President’s greeting; Letter accepting room and reply; Resolution of thanks to Academy of Science

The President, in her greeting to the Club, bade the members welcome to the new room offered them by the Academy of Sciences with the suggestion that the members become associates of the Academy, thus proving that we are “regarded as an earnest body of workers[.]” A copy of the letter of acceptance written by the President of the Woman’s Literary Club to Dr Uhler[,] President of the Academy of Sciences, and Dr Uhler’s reply were read by the Secretary. The Club thanked the Academy of Sciences by a rising vote, and a resolution of thanks was framed by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and passed by the Club.

### B. Taylor’s portrait; Cabinet for President; Milnor elected to the Maryland Historical Society; Various Club books and their uses

The President referred to various matters of interest as follows: The portrait of Bayard Taylor given by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham; the artist’s proof engraving and etching lent by Mrs. Graham; the ornamentation of the room--inviting the ladies to make presents to the Club, also gifts of needlework and their own literary labors; the cabinet given by the President--suggesting that it might be used for a collection of autographs of Club members; the election of Miss Mary Worthington Milnor as the first lady member of the Maryland Historical Society; the fair promise of the Club papers presented; the various Club books--1. “Authors and Artists of Maryland,” in charge of Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor, 2. Scrap book for clippings by

[87]

Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor who would be glad to have the assistance of Club members in collecting anecdotes of celebrated men, etc.,[^n10-06_01] and who could furnish a very good form of indexing for the books, 3. “Waifs” by Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud for printed matter of interest to members, not collected in book form, 4. and 5. “Club Records”--2 volumes--of which “Scrap book” by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton of printed accounts of Club meetings, etc., and “Blank book” by Miss [Grace] Balch to contain accounts of any special meeting and papers members would care to have, 6. “Woman’s Work and Progress” by Mrs. [Caroline S.] Eames, of which the central idea in so full a subject might be to collect work that bears a literary stamp.

[^n10-06_01]: This odd use of the generalized “men” underscores the deep entrenchment of masculinist language conventions at this time.

### “Public Schools” committee; O.T. Miller’s book; Reese’s and Easter’s books to appear

The President also called attention to the “Public Schools” Committee formed by request of the Supervisor of Public Schools, and consisting of Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin, Miss Bond, Miss Sally [K.] Carter, Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor and Miss [Edith] Duer--also announced the gift to the Club by Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller of her last book, the approaching appearance of Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese's book dedicated to Sidney Lanier and of Mrs. Easter’s [Marguerite E. Easter] book dedicated to William Hand Browne. [^n10-06_02]

[^n10-06_02]: Olive Thorne Miller’s _The Woman’s Club: A Practical Guide and Hand-Book_, Reese’s _A Handful of Lavender_, and Easter’s _Clytie and Other Poems_ were all published in 1891.

The programme for next Tuesday (was) given by the President and the following Tuesday (was) named as (a) Memorial Day for Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan.

### Copies [of] Constitution and meeting cards; No weekly postals; Resolution of thanks to forward to Dr Uhler.; Resolution of thanks to President and decoration Committee

It was also stated that the Secretary had copies of the Constitution and cards of Club meeting days for distribution and that there will be no more weekly postals.

Mrs. Graham proposed that the resolution of thanks passed be forwarded to Dr Uhler--Mrs. Sioussat seconded [by] Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson moved that the Secretary forward a copy. Carried.

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin wished to express pleasure to the ladies for the decoration of the room. (A) resolution of thanks to the President and all the ladies on the decoration committee was proposed, seconded by Miss Haughton, and passed. Mrs. Sioussat replied for the House Committee.

Adjourned.
Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)