---
title: 1891-12-15 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-12-15-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[114]

## 40th General Meeting--December 15th 1891.

### 40th meeting 12 E. Centre Street December 15th 1891.; Club associate members of Academy of Science. Those who wish may be asked to attend its meetings?

The fortieth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, Tuesday afternoon, December 15th, about 3.30 o’clock.

In the absence of the President, the meeting was presided over by the first Vice-President.

There were about thirty five (35) persons present. The first Vice-President said that sixty three of our members had been made associates of the Academy of Science(s), and that those who wished to attend its meetings should notify our President who would communicate with Mr Edward Stabler[,] Secretary of the Academy of Sciences.

The minutes of December 1st were read by the Secretary and of December 8th by Miss [Lydia] Crane who had so kindly taken notes during the Secretary’s absence.

### Anderson--on “Silas Marner”; Colvin--on “Caxton’s ‘Godfrey of Boulogne’” and on “W[illia]m of Tyre.”; Hampton--on “District Nursing.”

The first paper was by Mrs. [W. H.] Anderson[,] a “Critique on Silas Marner.” It is the story of the remedial influences of pure human relations, it makes attractive a character naturally uninteresting. It is brightened by humor, as in the excellent tavern scene, and is true to life. This simple tale is good for us, and “Silas” must have been dear to George Eliot.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin read a paper speaking of “Some Investigations in regard to William Caxron’s ‘Godfrey of Boulogne’” and referring to the various M.S.S. extant of the work of the great historian William of Tyre.[^12_15_01]

[^12_15_01]: Colvin's edition of _Godeffroy of Boloyne: or, The Siege and Conqueste of Jerusalem_ by William of Tyre and translated by William Caxton was published, with Colvin's introduction and notes, in 1893.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton gave “A New Illustration of Practical Philanthropy,” speaking especially of the success of “District Nursing” in London, and its large opportunities in other places. Such nurses should know mankind and be familiar with household economy--she should

[115]

even understand plumbing. If only each dispensary could be provided with such a nurse!

The first Vice-President spoke of the programme for the following week and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)