---
title: 1891-10-13 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-10-13-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[89]

##  33rd General Meeting--October 13th 1891.

### 33rd meeting 12 E. Centre St. October 13th; Notices of Memorial Day to absent members

The thirty third general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, October 13th, about 3.30 o’clock.

There were about twenty four (24) persons present, with the President in the chair.

The Secretary read the minutes of the meetings of June 2nd, and October 6th.

Consultation as to the need and mode of sending notifications to absent members of the memorial day to Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan the following week, resulted in a request being made to the Secretary to send special written notices.

### Sioussat on “Colonial Women”; President--”Myer’s St Paul”; Delsartian Lecturer

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat read a paper on “Colonial Women” speaking of the influence of women on colonization, especially of that exercised by women of Spanish and English descent in our own early settlements.

The President read a paper upon “The Motif and Manner of Myer’s St Paul,” recommending the work to the Club as of fine rhythm, intellectual quality and beautiful sentiment.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin by request of the President, announced that Mr Russell--Delsartian Lecturer--would, if desired,

[90]

give a course of lectures to the Club on dress and decoration reform.

Adjourned.
Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)