---
title: 1891-11-10 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-11-10-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[98]

## 36th General Meeting--November 10th 1891.

### 36th meeting 12 E. Centre St. November 10th 1891; Notice of purse for janitress; Notice of Class of Political Economy

The thirty sixth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, November 10th, 3.30 o’clock.

The President was in the chair and there were about twenty nine (29) persons present.

The President gave notice that it has been decided to take up a purse for the janitress who has lost property by fire in the building, and members were asked to contribute if they desired. Also gave notice that the Class of Political Economy formed last season will be held at 202 W. Monument Street. All are invited to join.

### Cup and saucer to Club if desired; Photograph of honorary member

Those who might desire to contribute a cup and saucer to the club after the example of certain members, were asked to bring the gift on or before the next Salon, and it was suggested that we should have a tea-cloth worked with the autographs of the younger ladies.

A photograph of Mrs. [Arthur] Cayley of Cambridge--honorary member--was shown to the Club, and notice was given of a possible visit to Baltimore of Mrs. Neville Lubbock, formerly Miss Herschel.

### Address--President; Committee “Current Criticism”; Criticism on “Mademoiselle Ixe” by Treasurer, read by Dammann; Other Criticisms

The President made a short address on the new Committee of Current Criticism, and thought that of this Committee all the Club might become members.

Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, Chairman of the Committee, read a criticism written by the Treasurer on “Mademoiselle Ixe” by Lanoe Falconer. Also criticisms on “Home Life on an Ostrich Farm” by Annie Martin, two dramatic poems[,] “The Intruder” and “The Blind” by Maurice Maeterlinck, a poem “The Isles of Greece” by Frederick Tennyson--brother to Alfred.

Mrs. Dammann also said that Madame [Agnes] Repplier had spoken of the pleasure Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese's book had given her, and had observed that in “Lydia,” “somebody seemed so glad.”

The President announced that the programme for next Tuesday would be under the auspices of the Committee on “Authors and Artists of Maryland.”

### Whitelock--”Modern Metaphysical Romance”; Easby on the New Century Club Philadelphia; Reese--”Mistress Persis’ Hawthorn Blossoms”

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock read a paper on “The Modern Metaphysical Romance” speaking of “The Faith Doctor,” Howells’ “Undiscovered Country,[“] Besant’s “Rise and Fall of Herr Paulus,” etc., and naming Russia as the home of the true psychological romance.

Mrs. [Gertrude Pierce] Easby spoke of the New Century Club of Philadelphia. It contains eleven Committees, six Sub-committees.

One of its great results is the “Working Women’s Guild” which has a gymnasium, provides lessons in dress making, type-setting, etc., with a paper of its own to chronicle good deeds--not police reports.

The “Education” Committee has school directors on the public school Board. The only endowed department is for the “legal protection of women” which looks after the payment of working women’s wages, etc. There is a Committee on “Public Interests” which corresponds to the position of Secretary of State in the government, and discusses the great questions of the day. This Committee has caused the establishment of Police Matrons in various places. The “Browning” Committee has four hundred and eleven members. The new Club building is to cost $70,000, and the mural decorations will be made by a Philadelphia woman architect and her pupils.[^n11-10_01]

[^n11-10_01]: The New Century Club was founded in 1877, inspired by the Women’s Pavilion that was created for the 1876 Centennial Exposition held in Philadelphia. Architect Minerva Parker Nichols (1863-1949) designed the Club’s building, which was erected in 1891 at 12th and Sansom Streets in Philadelphia. The building later featured murals by Gabrielle D. Clements (1858-1948). Margaret Lester, _Specialization and Significance: An Assessment of the Career and Works of Minerva Parker Nichols_ (Masters Thesis), University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 2012.

Mrs. Easby closed with good wishes for the Woman’s Literary Club.

Miss Reese read a story--”Mistress Persis’ Hawthorn Blossoms.”

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)