---
title: 1891-11-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-11-17-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[101]

## 37th General Meeting--November 17th 1891.

### 37th meeting 12 E Centre St November 17th 1891; Letter read from Recording Secretary of Academy of Science; Resolution of Academy of Sciences

The thirty seventh general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, November 17th, 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about thirty (30) persons present.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and adopted. The Secretary read a letter from Mr Edward Stabler Jr.[,] Recording Secretary of the Academy of Sciences[,] in which he acknowledged the receipt of the letter of the President--W.L.C.--accepting associate membership in the Academy, and of the resolution passed by the Club and forwarded by the Secretary. It contained also the following resolution of the Academy of Sciences.

“Resolved, that the cordial thanks of the Academy be, and the same are hereby tendered to the President and members of the Woman’s Literary Club of the City of Baltimore, for the very generous and appropriate manner in which they have fitted up and furnished the Meeting Room of the Academy, for the use of the Club, as well as of the Academy.”

Suggestion that Club collect all writings of those born or writing in Maryland

The President suggested that the Club undertake to collect the works of all writers who have been born or who have written in Maryland, and that an appeal be printed in the papers the following day, asking that all who desire to do so, send such writings to the Club. The form of appeal was read by the President and the matter approved by the Club. The President spoke of the Committee of Authors and Artists of Maryland--Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor--Chairman, and mentioned several subjects of papers to be furnished the Club later by them.

### Atkinson--on William Wirt; Tait--on Lanier; Lanier’s poem “Hard Times in Elf-land”

The first paper of the day was on William Wirt by Mrs. Robert [Laura] Atkinson, read by Miss Jane Randolph Harrison. It spoke of him as an orator, writer and distinguished member of the bar, and mentioned his writings such as the “Life of Patrick Henry,” “Letters in defence of Madison,” and “The Old Bachelor.”

[102]

Thanks were sent to Mrs. Atkinson with a message expressing sorrow at her absence and enjoyment of her article.

Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait read a paper upon Lanier who “embodied harmony and was the very soul of chivalry,” whose “genius was distinctly lyrical,” who was a “great poet and greater man.” Mrs. Tait read Lanier’s Christmas poem on “Hard Times in Elfland,” and announced that a Philadelphia paper said a series of Lanier’s letters would soon be published.

### Letter read from Mrs. Charles Howard; “Francis Scott Key” by Miss Brown; “Star-Spangled Banner”; Shippen read from “Baltimore Patriot” an account of “Bombardment of Fort McHenry”

The President read a letter from Mrs. Charles Howard daughter of Francis Scott Key, regretting that she could not be present at the meeting of the Club.

“Francis Scott Key” was the title of the article read by Miss Mary Wilcox Brown, in which she reviewed the poet’s life and referred especially to the Star-Spangled Banner written by him at the time of the battle of North Point, and afterwards set to an old tune “Anacreon in Heaven.”

According to the tradition of Mr Key’s family the song was first brought out at a tavern near Holliday Street, although it is also said to have been first sung at the theatre whence it passed to the street. Mrs. [Edward] Shippen--great-niece of Key and grand-daughter of Judge Nicholson--stated that she had in her possession the old back of a letter on which the song was first drafted before it was handed to Judge Nicholson.

Mrs. Shippen read from an old paper “The Baltimore Patriot” of September 28th, 1814, an account of “The Bombardment of Fort McHenry.” Miss Brown then read “The Star-Spangled Banner.” The President reminded the Club that it was Joseph Nicholson who though ill at the time, had been carried to give the casting vote which made Thomas Jefferson President

[103]

instead of Aaron Burr.

### Portraits shown

Portraits of William Wirt, Francis Scott Key, Judge Nicholson, and the bust of Lanier by Keyser illustrated the papers read, and the books of Wirt, Key, and Lanier were shown.

The portrait of Key was draped with the flag from Fort McHenry brought to Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor by a soldier for the occasion.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)