---
title: 1891-12-08 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1891-12-08-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[108]

## Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore.
## Executive Meeting.
## December 8th 1891.

### Board of Management meeting December 8th 1891

The Board of Management met, with the exception of the Secretary, Miss [Eliza] Ridgely, who, being unavoidably detained, sent a request that some other lady would take her place,--for the evening. Miss [Lydia] Crane consented to take notes.

### On Postal Cards for weekly notice to Club; Subject of Postal Cards postponed

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, the President, brought before the meeting the question asked on a former occasion, by the Secretary--whether postal cards ought to be sent out, to give notice of our regular meetings?--as was done last year. To direct these cards had required one hour a week of the Secretary’s time; and whether these

[106]

notices are necessary or desirable--in proportion to the time and labor expended on them--is an important question.

The President said that, in her experience, a private notification had always been successful, and had invariably met with a response.

It was said that the members ought to care to attend regularly, but that securing a large attendance was worth some effort.

It was also said that the average attendance last year, under the postal card system, had been 45, and this year--so far--about 30.

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat said that many persons were not yet settled in town, and that there were many things just now to take up the time and attention of our members.

We were told that the proportion of members who had paid their dues this year--64--was greater than at this time last year.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord suggested sending the notices later--on Monday--so that they may be received very near the meeting; and not be forgotten.

Miss [Henrietta] Szold thought Tuesday morning too late for them to be received.

There was no decision on the subject of the postal cards, as the Secretary, who, no doubt, has the best right to speak on this point, was absent.

_Question of Assistant Secretary or of a Corresponding and Recording Secretary; Miss Balch has resigned care of book (Scrap); Mrs. Lord takes charge of book

It was asked whether Miss Ridgely would care to have an Assistant Secretary, or, as our members increase, to divide the many duties, hitherto so-satisfactorily performed by herself, between a Corresponding, and a Recording Secretary.

[107]

Of course, this whole subject was deferred until Miss Ridgely could be present, and give her opinion and vote upon it. Therefore an Executive Meeting was agreed upon for next Tuesday, the 15th of December.

Mrs. Turnbull then announced that Miss Grace Balch has found it necessary to resign the position she accepted last spring,--that of Recorder, or Keeper of the book in which any of our meetings of unusual interest were to have special records;--after consultation with the writers of specially interesting papers.

Mrs. Lord, who was said to have never once been absent from any of our meetings, then consented to take the office resigned by Miss Balch.

### On subscription for Janitress; Appropriation for Club China, etc; Lock on closet

Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson reported that the subscription for the Janitress amounted to $16.00.(?)

As it had been proposed to raise $25.00, to replace her sewing-machine, lost by fire, the suggestion had been made to supplement the amount in hand from the Club funds;--or, else, to give her the $16.00.

After several suggestions, as: that the $16.00 might not be judiciously spent,--that the sewing machine would be the most useful of all presents,--that the business of our Club was not especially philanthropy, and, that we must be just before we were generous, the question was asked, whether the $9.00 could be spared from the treasury?

Though we were told that we were not in debt, the proposal which had been made seemed to require mature consideration.

It was argued that final action upon it should be deferred until the next Executive Meeting;--also--that the President would call the attention of the whole Club to the subject of the subscription, at the meeting about to be held.

[108]

The Treasurer announced that the last Salon, on November 24th, given, as we knew, under the direction of herself and Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, had cost $7.38, instead of the $18.00 which we had been accustomed to pay for those formerly held. These ladies, however, had lent some articles to the Club; and we all remembered that they had done a large amount of work that evening.

It was agreed that the $10.00 saved should be spent for china,--the linen having been already paid for out of the Club funds. Also, that what was saved each month might be used to purchase such things as the Club needs.

It was decided that a lock should be placed on the door of the china-closet.

An informal discussion then followed on the qualifications of new members. Several names, in this connection, were mentioned; as that of Mrs. Charles Henry Smith, by Mrs. Colvin; and those of the Misses Gilman, by Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown; but no formal proposals were made, and no votes were taken on this subject.

Adjourned.

Approved by Board

The above notes were taken from the notes given by Miss Crane to the Secretary and read (by Miss Crane?) to the Board and approved.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)