---
title: 1892-02-16 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-02-16-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[130]

## 47th General Meeting--February 16th 1892.

### 47th meeting 12 E. Centre Street February 16th 1892.; Note from Miss Litchfield read; To defer Reception; Scrap book “Waifs”; Richardson’s article on “Prince Galitzin”

The forty-seventh general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, Tuesday afternoon, February 16th, 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair. There were about thirty seven (37) persons present.

Minutes were read by the Secretary and adopted by the Club. A Note was read from Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield expressing her thanks to the club for the Reception tendered and signifying her acceptance of the courtesy.

The President stated that Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton would like the Reception deferred until after Lent as many persons have engagements and many are ill; and called attention to the Club Scrap book “Waifs” intended to contain articles of prose and verse of the members saying that it had not advanced as was desired.

The President also referred to a letter received from Mrs. [Hester Crawford Dorsey] Richardson in which the latter spoke of sending a copy of the magazine containing the article on “Prince Galitzin, Priest and Pioneer,” and hoped to be able later to visit the Club.

### Schröder “A Plea for Virgil as an Original Poet”

Miss [Olga M. D.] Schröder read “A Plea for Virgil as an Original Poet” saying that in his Pastorals however, he was attracted by Theocritus--the second, third, fifth and seventh Eclogues being purely imitations; in fact he wished to be the Latin Theocritus. In the first and ninth as they now stand, it is said that we see more of the Lombard--less of the Sicilian; the sixth is an imitation of Lucretius; but the eighth contains some of Virgil’s finest words, as the passage on “Apples,” etc. The simplicity and tenderness of the lines are doubtless due to his art that made his lovers children. The Georgics, called didactic by critics, form a regular farmer’s manual (for Virgil loved

[131]

nature”); yet their aim is beyond this. The imaginative and melodious verse and conscious aim at poetic charm differ from the work of the didactic poets. Virgil’s Epic Poetry--see the Eneid--was not--as were the Iliad and primitive essays--long narratives in hexameter verse written for love of the story, but to sing the greatness of Rome. Notice the visit of Eneas to the lower religions--how far is that from an imitation! how splendid the interview with Dido! Miss Schröder would be most glad to awake a deeper love for the classics.

### Hurd--”Cicero”

Dr [Kali Campbell] Hurd read an article upon Cicero, saying that his great desire was the establishment of an oligarchy at Rome. His life may be divided into six parts: 1st when Questor; 2nd A Consul; 3rd an Exile; 4th Governor of Cilicia; 5th with Caesar, himself in the background; 6th writing the Philippines.

His orations are very celebrated especially those against Vares, and his denunciations of Catiline. His action in obtaining the death of one of Catiline’s followers, caused his own fall. His letters at the time of his exile are very forcible, and later he wrote essays on “Glory,” “Old Age,” “Friendship,” etc. The Philippines written against Antony are so scathing that Antony is in consequence despised by posterity. Cicero was bold in spirit and in speech though a physical coward--yet he died bravely. He was full of self love, fond of the praise of others, ambitious, and a great orator. His words are so sweet, the rhythm so true--he was indeed a man who could express himself in perfect language. He worked for the highest seeming good of Rome.

### Reception and discussion postponed

The President announced that the Salon would be held the following Tuesday, but the Reception, and proposed discussion for the afternoon would be postponed. Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)