---
title: 1892-01-12 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-01-12-salon.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 43rd General Meeting--January 12th 1892.

### 43rd meeting 12 E. Centre Street January 12th 1892; 2nd reading of new names; Section on “Election of New Members” read.

The forty third general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon January 12th, after 3.30 o’clock.

In the absence of the President, the first Vice President was in the chair.

There were about twenty four (24) persons present, among whom was Miss Cotton, President of the Woman’s Literary Club of Portsmouth, Ohio.

The minutes of the last general meeting were read by the Secretary who also gave the second reading of the names of new members.

By request of the Chairman, Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article IV. on the Election of New Members were read to the Club by the Secretary.

### “Education” Committee; Schröder on “Oxford Student Life.”

The literary work of the day was in charge of Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin--Chairman of the Committee on “Education.”

Miss Olga [M. D.] Schröder gave an article upon “Student Life in Oxford,” telling of the attraction of the place, and the efforts made in 1878 to admit women as students.

Miss Schröder also spoke of the advantages open to women, and of the dues required; of the public examination; of the three women’s halls; of the few restrictions made; of the charitable work open to them; and of the pleasures allowed them--as afternoon teas, garden parties, tennis,

[120]

boating, driving. Miss Schröder also read extracts from the Lady Margaret Hall paper.[^1-12_01]

[^1-12_01]: Lady Margaret Hall, the women's college of Oxford University, was established in 1878. _The Daisy_, the student magazine, was published from February 1890 through December 1891 and was replaced by _The Fritillary_, published from 1894-1931.  

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin announced that Miss Agnes Repplier will be with us next Tuesday, and that the President asked the names of all completed papers, that she might prepare the programmes for some weeks in advance.

### Hurd--on “Gymnastics in Europe.”

Dr [Kali Campbell] Hurd then spoke upon “Gymnastics in Europe”--that the schools seek some rule of gymnastics, and the book worm is no longer admired. The French need gymnastics to save them from utter degeneration, but their system of ventilation and exercise is not complete. The German system is on physiological principles, but the girls are not dressed nor shod as might be desired. The Swedish system is almost aesthetic, and about as much may be said for it as for the German.

In reply to questions from Mrs. Griffin and Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, Dr Hurd said that excessive training is injurious.

### Carter--on “Education of German Women.”

Miss Sally R. Carter spoke upon the “Education of German Women,” and gave a personal description of Miss Lahne who has such good educational ideas. In private schools in Germany, the work is narrow with little breadth of culture even in seminaries.

In arithmetic, the training is poor, except for mechanical accuracy; in geography excellent work is done, especially in location and physical conformation, although the limits are narrow and there is apparently neither map-drawing nor modelling. One finds accurate knowledge of rules of punctuation and careful writing, correct but too

[121]

automatic grammar, wonderful acquaintance with continental and especially with German history--both of facts and of dates. There is excellent knowledge of French and English, but perhaps too much manual training, and the discipline seems to mean restraint rather than to teach self-control. The Victoria Lyceum is to give women a lighter training. The German intelligence--of women as of men, shown elsewhere--is the most truth-seeking and strongest of our time.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)