---
title: 1892-06-08 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-06-08-salon.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 17th Salon. June 8th, 1892.

### New officers

Also written from memory.

The 17th Salon, being the last meeting of the 2nd year of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday afternoon, June 8th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

[170]

The President, after calling the meeting to order, announced the names of the new officers elected for the succeeding year, at the previous meeting on May 24th; and introduced those of them who were present to their fellow members.

### Autograph--list of members; Certificates of membership.

A request was made for all members present to write their names in the Club Book: it being desirable for the Club to possess an autograph list of all its members, present and future. A large portion of the present membership being absent on this occasion the list was by no means a full one; but we trust to the future, attendance and membership, to supply the deficiency.

Handsome Certificates of membership were presented to all the members present.

### Roses as mementos of the meeting; "Garden roses."; Accompanying sentiments

A request had been made during the preceding week for each member to bring to this meeting a rose, tied with a violet ribbon, accompanied by an appropriate sentiment. Many members complied with this request; and, at the close of the exercises, the leaves of these roses--of "the leafy month of June"--were collected in a jar, to be presented as a memento of this last meeting of our Club's second year.

We may, if we choose, believe our roses to be life those "garden roses" told by Keats, whose--

[171]

<poetry>"--sense with their deliciousness was spelled";</poetry>

while their "soft voices" 

<poetry>"Whispered of peace, and truth, and friendliness unquelled.”</poetry>

The reading of the accompanying sentiments comprised the only literary exercises of the meeting. They were generally poetical in form, and ranging "from grave to gay." A large portion were of a humorous nature, and seemed to be highly appreciated,--judging from the sounds of laughter which followed their reading.

New members; President's farewell.

Our newly elected members were introduced by our President; after which refreshments were served; and a portion of the afternoon was passed in social conversation.

After a few graceful words of farewell from our President, the Club adjourned, to meet again in October 1892.

Approved.
Lydia Crane
Secretary.

[END OF SEASON 2]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)