---
title: 1892-02-09 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-02-09-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[128]

## 46th General Meeting--February 9th 1892.

### 46th meeting 12 E. Centre Street February 16th 1892.; “Fiction” Committee

The forty sixth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street--Tuesday afternoon, February 9th, 3.30 o’clock--with the President in the Chair.

There were about thirty eight (38) persons present, and the literary work was under the auspices of Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller[,] Chairman of the Committee on Fiction.

### Bennett[,] “A Singular Case of Gratitude”

Miss Sarah E. [H.] Bennett read a tale called “A Singular Case of Gratitude,” treating of the struggle of an old lady between pride of birth and need of money, which was ended by the opportune but sarcastic bequest of a rejected lover.

### Haughton--”The First Enemy”

“The First Enemy” was read by Miss L.C. Osburne [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton and told of the disappointed love which caused a young doctor to lose faith even in God, although by way of consolation, he attempted to make a woman free from taint of falseness. He formed the body scientifically, wrapping it in sweet-scented clothes, made the flesh quite perfect with the exception of animal heat, compounded the blood most carefully, and partially succeeded in giving his subject circulation and muscular action thus even causing momentary pulsation and motion. Yet the experiment failed[,] to his intense disappointment. He left home and travelled; and one day was much impressed by a story telling of information gained by two persons while their bodies were sleeping, thus showing the superiority of a strange something to the mere physical body. He went home, and at last by the side of the beautiful, inanimate woman he had made, he realized that there is above the physical a mysterious soul--God-made;--

[129]

and he believed.

### Reese--Chapter of an Old Love Story”; Reception tendered President and Litchfield

Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese read the First Chapter of an Old Love Song” in which “Bathsheba tells the Bees” according to an old custom which provided that on the death of a member of the family or of the head of the family, the bees should be informed.

The second Vice-President tendered the President and Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield a reception in the name of the Woman’s Literary Club.

The President accepted the courtesy with thanks and with the hope that the Club may always exert an influence for good.

### Williams--”At Last”--poem; Haman read “A Bit of Delft” etc; Whitelock authoress.

Miss Williams--Vice President of the Southern Literary Association--read a spirited poem on the South called “At Last.”

Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman read a story called “A Bit of Delft--An Optical Illusion” by and authoress whose name was withheld until the reading should be finished. The story turned upon the desire of a young English girl to discover the secret of the blue Delft china--how she with her parents, went to Delft, and she met there in the factory a man with a beautiful face and smile with whom she fell in love. One day she was told that he was ill and then came the strange illusion--the picture of his beautiful dark face framed by the light of a window--she sketched the face in a strange trance--then fainted and was carried away and taken home to England having gained a face upon a tile and having lost her first love. Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock was the authoress of this story.

The President announced the programme for the following week, and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)