---
title: 1892-01-26 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-01-26-salon.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 14th Salon--January 26th 1892.

### 14th Salon January 26th 1892 12 E. Centre Street; Discussion about topic: “Does the creative faculty exist in woman?”

The fourteenth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, 3.30 o’clock, and there were about thirty nine (39) persons present.

The President, in speaking of the little talk or paper to be given at the next Salon on the topic “Does the creative faculty exist in woman?,” said that Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat would take the affirmative side of the question, but Miss [Bessy L.] Clark on account of absence, would be unable to give the negative view. After several suggestions, it was decided that Mrs.  [Maud Graham] Early should substitute her “Statement” on the negative side.

### Sioussat read article from “Critic”; Thanks for gifts; Selection from Easter’s book; “Greeting to Sidney Lanier”
Mrs. Sioussat read an article from “The Critic” in support of woman’s creative ability.

The President expressed the thanks of the Club to several members for gifts made, and read a selection from Mrs. Easter’s [Marguerite E. Easter] new book which had lately been presented.

A “Greeting to Sidney Lanier” sent by Mrs. Lanier [Sydney Day Lanier], and written by Mr Tabb a Maryland poet and an intimate friend of Mr Lanier, was read by the President.

### Brent--on “Chinese Laundry”; Characteristics of nation; Customs; Language; Legends, etc.; “Angel--flower.”; “Lotus--flower”

Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent substituted for her article “Two Oriental Women”--a paper on the “Chinese Laundry.” Miss Brent

[124]

described the Chinese as of dauntless energy, prompt, active, frugal, speaking of poverty with bated breath, not willing to accept pecuniary aid, grateful, charitable to their sick, trustful when convinced of another’s fidelity, very discriminating, intensely earnest both as heathen and as Christians, always an oriental, seemingly phlegmatic but most emotional, ingenious, with artistic talent and a good memory for commands received. It is against the custom of the nation to bury their dead in a hollow where the wind can blow lest the body should turn over, and the family fortunes be consequently overset. Tribal distinctions are so marked that even those who have become Christians are nearly everywhere found to be members of the same tribe. The father commands the son to marry, and the wife--often chosen by the size of her foot--becomes a slave after being carried across her husband’s threshold, and swears eternal obedience and faithfulness to her mother-in-law. Ther married Chinaman wears a bracelet on his left arm. There are many leagues formed to overthrow the Manchurian dynasty, while others are superstitious in their feeling for the Emperor. Their love of music is undeveloped, for in China, singing is the actors’ duty, although others know the Chinese songs. The Chinaman talks a great deal when work is over, and is a ready speaker without self-consciousness. The language much resembles the Indian tongues. The Chinese have various legends and superstitions. They think the configuration of the earth is caused by the dragon, and dragons have been supposed to represent to them the power of water--

[125]

beneficent and malevolent. Indeed they think riches and rank depend on the movement of the stream.

The serpent hates woman; for when he attempted to go up to heaven, she laughed, and he fell down. Good luck is brought to the person who has an “angel-flower” in bloom at the national New Year, and they are familiar with artificial means to make it grow more quickly.

Miss Brent closed with lines on the “Lotus-flower.”

### Middleton--original lines; Conversation; Refreshments.

Miss Maria Middleton read the following original verses: “To a White Camellia” written on a camellia planted in 1802 by the French naturalist Micheau;[^Micheau] “On a White Marble Church Spire”; “The Wind”; “To any Friend in the Fourth Storey.”

[^Micheau]: French botanist and explorer André Michaux, also known as Andrew Michaud (1746-1802), published some of the first works on North American flora, including the 2-volume _Flora Boreali-Americana_ (1803). At the extensive garden he cultivated near what is now Charleston, South Carolina, he also introduced the Camellia and other plants to the North American continent. He had been engaged by Thomas Jefferson in 1793 to explore the lands west of the Mississippi River--a full decade before Lewis and Clark--but the planned expedition failed due to a lack of funds. Michaux returned to France in 1796 and later died on an expedition to Madagascar in 1802. The scene depicted by Middleton in "To a White Camellia" is likely fabricated or apocryphal.
  
The President announced the names of those who would contribute the next programme.

General conversation ensued, and light refreshments were served, after which the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)