---
title: 1892-01-05 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-01-05-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[117]

## Board Meeting--January 5th 1892.

### Board of Management meeting January 5th 1892 12 E. Centre Street; 6 new members approved.; Former member re-elected; May an unknown name be brought up on a day not named in Constitution? Laid on table; Name proposed unconstitutionally.; May Executive member second unfinished presentation? No.

The semi-annual meeting of the Board of Management for the approval of new members was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, January 5th 1892 after 2.30 o’clock, with eight (8) members present.

The President was in the chair. The minutes of the Board meeting of December 15th were read by the Secretary and adopted.

Six new members were approved; and one old member who had resigned fearing she could not fulfil the duties of the Club, was, by her own desire, re-elected.

The question was raised whether the name of a person unknown to the members of the Committee, and upon which they do not feel able to vote, may be brought up again for approval at a subsequent Committee meeting, on a day not named by the Constitution for that purpose. The President thought such deferred action might not be opposed to the  _spirit_  of the Constitution. Several members thought we should keep strictly the  _letter_  of the Constitution. Finally, Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, seconded by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, moved to lay the matter on the table--which was done.

A name proposed by a member of the Club, but not seconded as required by Article 4 Section 5 of the Constitution was therefore not voted upon.

The Secretary asked whether in such a case a member of the Executive Committee could not second the name.

The majority of the Board thought not, and the name was held over, as no being proposed in due form.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Adopted by Board.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)