---
title: 1892-01-05 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-01-05-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[118]

## 1892
## 42nd General Meeting--January 5th 1892

### 42nd meeting 12 E. Centre Street January 5th 1892; First reading of new names approved; On associate members of Academy of Sciences

The forty second general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, January 5th, 1892, after 3.30 o’clock.

The President was in the chair, and there were about thirty (30) persons present.

The minutes of the meetings of December 15th, 22nd and 29th were read by the Secretary, and also the names of new members approved by the Committee.

The reference to the clause in the minutes of December 15th on associate membership in the Academy of Science, the President stated that all members of the Club and those who might join in the future, except the honorary and non-resident members could be admitted as associates of the Academy of Sciences.

### Crane read “Critic”’s article on “Absence of Creative Faculty in Woman.”; Reply read by Szold.; Volunteers asked to uphold 1st view. None--Miss Clark appointed.; Choice of title for discussion; Sioussat uphold affirmative view.

Miss [Lydia] Crane read the article in “The Critic” by Mollie Elliott Sewell [Molly Elliot Seawell]  on “The Absence of the Creative Faculty in Woman.” Miss Se[a]well said that woman--not excepting Sappho, George Eliot and Austen--has created nothing that will live in music, art, literature, or even in mechanical invention, and is made up of emotions; while man possesses intellect.

The reply to this article also taken from “The Critic” was read by Miss [Henrietta] Szold.

The President asked for a volunteer to uphold the view of the first paper at the discussion to take place the last Tuesday in February. So slight was the response that the President decided to place the matter in the hands of Miss Clark [Bessy L. Clark] who had introduced the subject.

The choice of a title for the discussion was put to the vote and decided upon as follows: “Does the creative faculty exist in woman.” Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat consented to

[119]

sustain the affirmative view of the question.

The President announced that the programme for the following week would be in charge of Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)