---
title: 1892-02-23 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-02-23-salon.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[132]

## 15th Salon--February 23rd 1892

### 15th Salon 12 E. Centre Street February 23rd 1892

The fifteenth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, Tuesday afternoon, February 23rd--3.30 o’clock.

There were about fifty (50) persons present, among whom were Mrs. Childs, Mrs. [Gertrude Pierce] Easby, Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield, Miss Williams and other guests.

### Jane Harrison on “Empress Eugénie”; Invitation to lecture on “Carmen Sylva”

The President introduced Miss Jane Randolph Harrison who read a paper on the “Empress Eugénie” speaking of her birth in Granada in 1826, her father being a Spanish grandee, and her mother a descendant of a Scotch family. Her childhood was passed in Madrid. She was very graceful and amiable, and in described as attractive in feature with a charming smile, and a beautiful, fair, transparent skin. 1853 she married Napoleon III. of France, and as Empress was very lovely and charitable, though extremely extravagant in dress. The Emperor and Empress gave a banquet at one time every Thursday during the winter to the deputies, ambassadors, etc. In 1856 the Prince Imperial was born. During Napoleon’s absence on several occasions, Eugénie became regent and she held this dignity during the Franco-Russian war in 1870. On September 4th, when the Paris mob approached the Tuileries, Eugénie was hurried out of the city by Dr Evans--the American dentist--and taken to Belgium, then to Trouville whence she sailed for England on Lord Burgoyne’s vessel. At Camden House, Chiselhurst, she and the Emperor and Prince Imperial lived, and there the Emperor died. The Prince entered the English army and was killed by the Zulus. Eugénie went to Zululand in her grief

[133]

--to be sure there was no mistake, and afterwards returned to England where she now lives a calm, beautiful life at Farmbrough(?) in Hampshire.

After reading this paper, Miss Harrison invited the Club members to her lecture on “Carmen Sylva” the following Saturday.

### Williams--”Some Impressions of the Club.”

Miss Williams of the Southern Literary Association read “Some Impressions of the Club,” speaking in very complimentary terms of the Woman’s Literary Club--its President--and its distinguished writers.

During the afternoon, refreshments were served.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)