---
title: 1892-02-02 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-02-02-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[126]

## 45th General Meeting--February 2nd 1892.

### 45th meeting 12 E. Centre Street February 2nd 1892; Treasurer’s report

The forty fifth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, February 2nd, about 3.30 o’clock.

The President was in the chair and there were about thirty-two (32) persons present.

The minutes of the meetings of January 12th, 19th, and 26th were read by the Secretary and approved.

The Treasurer’s semi-annual report was read and approved.

### Cloud read “Pluckamin.”; Lord on “Miss Mulock’s Poems”

Miss Virginia [Woodward] Cloud read an extract from a diary in the shape of a sketch upon “Pluckamin,” a village of revolutionary times. The neighborhood was an interesting bit of country, and it had its historic tale of a fallen hero.

Mrs. Charles W. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord substituted for “A Dickens Revery” a tribute to Miss Mulock in the shape of verses on “Miss Mulock’s Poems.”[^Mulock]

[^Mulock]: Dinah Maria Mulock Craik (1826-1887) was a prolific British poet and novelist who published under a variety of names, including "Miss Mulock" and "Mrs. Craik." _Miss Mulock's Poems_ was published by Thomas Y. Crowell (New York) in 1880.

### Bennett: “The Evidence of a Book”

Miss Sarah E. [H.] Bennett read an article upon “The Evidence of a Book.” This was the Ladies “Monthly Museum” printed in London in 1808 which bore witness to the kind of literature provided for the female sex at that period. It was written especially for the amusement and instruction of women, and was embellished with six portraits and six fashion plates. There were sketches of Miss Edgeworth and of the actress Catalani. Reference was made to educational matters, and music, dancing and drawing were approved.[^Ladies]

[^Ladies]: _The Lady's Monthly Museum; Or, Polite Repository of Amusement and Instruction_ was a British monthly magazine featuring poetry, essays, drama, and color  plates of seasonal fashions published between 1798-1832. Novelist Maria Edgeworth (1768-1849) and Italian soprano Angelica Catalani (1780-1849) were cultural touchstones of the day.

The custom of selling women as wives for a pint of gin or a few shillings was discouraged. It contained

[127]

verses dolorous and amorous--of sickly sentiment--some lines were addressed “To a Lady who Sent a Present of Some Preserves.” There were busy body essays on “Beauty,” “Anxiety,” etc; “Thoughts on Celibacy”; a sentimental story or so; book notices of names now forgotten or unknown. The old book itself was shown to the Club.

### Middleton on “An Old Roman Coin”

Miss Maria H. Middleton read a paper upon “An Old Roman Coin.” Of these coins there were three kinds--that of the Republic at first shaped like a brick but later made circular; the family coin to commemorate events in family history and deeds of ancestors; and the Imperial coin. Miss Middleton traced the imaginary course of a coin from its ancient house--and finally to America. Casts of old coins from Caesar to Domitian were shown to the Club.

### Lord on “Time and Immortality”’ President on “Man of Genius.”

Mrs. Charles W. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord read verses upon “Time and Immortality,” and the President spoke of “The Man of Genius[,]” a book written by Professor Lombroso of the University of Turin, who seeks to prove that all genius is insanity--partial or total. The work is curious and interesting.[^Lombroso]

[^Lombroso]: Cesare Lombroso's _The Man of Genius_ was published in 1891.

The President announced the programme for the following week, which would be in charge of Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller[,] Chairman of “Fiction,” and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)