---
title: 1892-04-14 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-04-14-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[147]

## Board Meeting--April 14th 1892.

### Board of Management meeting 12 E. Centre Street. April 14th 1892; To arrange for "Reception"; 2 maids in dressing-room. Violet and white badges; Bouquets to President and Litchfield.; Reception Committee early at Lyceum; $275 voted for supper, hall and flowers.; Supper.

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Thursday afternoon, April 14th, at 4 o'clock--to make arrangements for the Reception.

The Second Vice President was in the chair and at least eight (8) persons were present--and among them Miss [Sarah] Adams.

It was decided that two maids should be placed in the ladies' dressing room; that badges of white and violet should be provided for the Committee, for Miss [Sarah] Adams who would have charge of the decoration of the hall, and for Mr Edwin Turnbull and a friend who would assist in introducing the guests.

Decided, that bouquets of violets should be sent to the President and Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield, and that it would be advisable for the Reception Committee to be at the Lyceum as near 7.30 o'clock as possible.

The sum of $275[^value] was voted from the Treasury for the supper, flowers and hall--the supper to be served by a caterer, and to consist of croquettes and peas, salad, ices, bonbons, coffee, etc., and to include china and waiters.

[^value]: $275 in 1892 is the equivalent of nearly $8500 in 2022 dollars, according to the Consumer Price Index Inflation Calculator at officialdata.org.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely.
Secretary.

Adopted by Board May 3rd 1892.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)