---
title: 1892-05-02 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-02-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[154]

## Board Meeting--May 2nd 1892.

### Board of Management meeting. 1530 Park Avenue. May 2nd 1892.; Our presentation of work of Club at World's Fair; Constitution and programmes of meetings to be sent.; Also book of Club essays; Committee of 3 to supervise printing of book; Perhaps also book of poetry and stories may be sent; Decided to try to have last day in May election day and Salon first Tuesday June.

A meeting of the Board of Management was held at 1530 Park Avenue, on Monday, May 2nd,--12 o'clock noon, with seven (7) members present.

The President was in the chair, and the proper presentation of the work of the Club at the World's Columbian Exposition was brought forward.

Decided to send to the Exposition the Constitution and complete programmes of meetings bound together in Club colors.

The apparent sentiment of the Board after discussion was that a book should also be prepared for the Exposition containing the best selection of essays--from articles read at the Club.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, seconded by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, proposed that a Committee of three be chosen to supervise the printing of such a book. Passed.

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin were selected for this Committee. To this book may be added, if found desirable, a volume of poetry and stories from those read at the Club.

Suggested by the President that each member might wish to possess a copy of the Club essays--as also other Clubs or booksellers;--and that any deficit from such undertaking be made up from Club funds, and any advance added to the Club treasury. Not final.

Proposed and decided to change the last day in May to a regular meeting day, and to have the elections then;--Also to move the Salon to the first Tuesday in June.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Adopted by the Board May 3rd 1892.


<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)