---
title: 1892-03-01 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-03-01-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[134]

## 48th General Meeting March 1st 1892.

### 48th meeting 12 E. Centre Street March 1st 1892; Note from Sylvan Drey; Discussion on “Creative faculty of woman” be omitted; Invitations to “Reception”; “Prince Galitzin”

The forty eighth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, March 1st, 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about thirty two (32) persons present. The Secretary read the minutes of February 16th and 23rd. Also a note from Mr Sylvan Drey, presenting two pamphlets and a play to the Club.

The President asked whether the Club preferred to have the discussion on the question “Does the creative faculty exist in woman” postponed for two weeks or dropped. After close voting, it was decided to omit the discussion.

The President stated that the married members of the Club would receive invitations to the Reception for their husbands, and asked that the unmarried members would send in the names of the escorts desired--and also referred to Mrs. Richardson’s [Hester Crawford Dorsey Richardson] article on “Prince Galitzin” in Lippincott’s Magazine.[^Gallitzin]

[^Gallitzin]: Richardson's biographical profile of Demetrius Augustine Gallitzin (1770-1840) was published in _Lippincott's Magazine_ in March 1892 and was also featured at the WLCB salon on March 29, 1892. Gallitzin, known as "The Apostle of the Alleghenies," was born to the Dutch gentry but joined the priesthood, entering the Seminary of St. Sulpice in Baltimore in 1792. He established the Loretto settlement in Pennsylvania in 1799 and worked throughout western Maryland, the area now encompassed by the state of West Virginia, and southern and western Pennsylvania. Gallitzin was nominated for canonization by the Catholic Church in 2005.

### Anderson--on “Luther Martin”; Articles to Committee “Authors and Artists of Maryland”

Mrs. W.H. Anderson gave a biographical sketch of “Luther Martin” who lived about one hundred years ago and was for thirty years Attorney General of Maryland.

[135]

If Wirt and Key may be compared to a “cameo,” Martin can be called an “etching.”[^Wirt] With him, breadth was gained at expense of finish; he had a great brain and a tender heart; was generous but madly extravagant, and made many debts. He suffered much and gained much. He espoused a cause with might and main, and had a sort of proud satisfaction in being in the minority, was highly courageous, and the unpopular side was always his! What he read he assimilated, having a magnificent memory. He loved a good joke; was devoted to his friends; but too fond of ardent spirits. His boyhood was passed on a farm, whence he went to Princeton at twelve years of age, and here he graduated before he was nineteen. He chose the profession of law, and in 1778 was made Attorney General through Judge Samuel Chase. Then he moved to Baltimore Town, where he married, and settled. He attended the Philadelphia Convention and voted against the Constitution--being opposed to the centralization of government. When Judge Chase was impeached, Luther defended him successfully. Later, Luther opposed Mr Wirt in the famous trial at Richmond which resulted in the liberation of Aaron Burr. In 1820, he was paralyzed, but partly recovered, and in his seventy-seventh year, went to Philadelphia to visit Colonel [Aaron] Burr; and here he died and was buried--the Baltimore bar passing a resolution that its members should wear mourning for three months in honor of this “patriarch of the profession.”
[^Wirt]: Luther Martin (1748-1826) served as Maryland Attorney General for decades in the early 19th century and was a prominent anti-Federalist and opposed the ratification of the Constitution. Though he himself owned slaves, he opposed slavery; throughout his career, he inveighed against federalism and defended states' rights. Martin defended Aaron Burr when he was tried for treason in 1807; prosecuting attorney William Wirt (1772-1834) was appointed US Attorney General in 1817 and was nominated for president in 1832. Francis Scott Key (1779-1843), best-known today as the author of "The Star-Spangled Banner," was also a respected attorney. All three resided in Maryland throughout their careers.

The President expressed a desire that all such articles be given to the Committee of “Authors and Artists of Maryland” to be collected in the Club book.

### Malloy--on “Drama in Baltimore”

Miss [Louise] Malloy read an article upon “The Rise of the Drama

[136]

in Baltimore.” In 1773 our first theatrical performance took place at the corner of Baltimore and Frederick Streets, and performances were continued at Water and Albemarle Streets until the Revolution.[^theater] Our first Theatre was opened 15th January 1782. When yellow fever was prevalent, theatrical performances were not allowed after 10th June, but the time was extended to July 4th. Among earlier actors were Miss Elizabeth Arnold[,] mother of Edgar A. Poe, Master Payne[,] a bay actor and the author of “Home, Sweet Home.”
[^theater]:  The New-York Historical Society has a playbill for the New Theatre "in Frederick Street" for a porformance of Milton's _Masque of Comus_ dated July 10, 1772. Malloy mentions a variety of performers who graced Baltimore stages throughout the nineteeth century, including British tragedian Charles Kean (1811-1868), French dancer and actress Céline Céleste-Elliott (1815?-1882), Edwin Booth (1833-1893; brother of John Wilkes Booth), Italian opera singer Adelina Patti (1843-1919), and especially, the Swedish singer Jenny Lind, who took the US by storm in an 1850 American tour orchestrated by P.T. Barnum.

Among the celebrities who played, sang and danced at the Holliday Theatre were Cook, Macready, Forrest, Kean, Celeste, Charlotte Cushman, Booth, Edwin Forrest, Adelina Patti, Lucca, Ristori, and Lotta, etc.

At Front Street Theatre, Jenny Lind sang and Fanny Ellerslie danced. Ford’s Grand Opera House was opened by Mrs. Caroline Richings-Bernard in “As you like It.” Here Mary Anderson acted before Dom Pedro and his wife; in 1886 the sum of $5,000 was raised here for the Charleston sufferers; in 1885 Wm Forrester’s funeral took place here; and in 1889 a reception was given to Captain Murrill and Officers who saved the passengers of the Danemark. In 1870 the Academy of Music was started, and many interesting entertainments of various kinds have been given here.

Miss Malloy referred also to the old “Museum,” and the Adelphi Theatre.

### Collection lent; Motion of thanks passed.

A very interesting collection lent to Miss Malloy by Mr John L. Ford, Mr Rennert and Mr George W. Rife, was shown to the Club. A motion of thanks to these gentlemen proposed by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, seconded by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, was passed by the Club.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)