---
title: 1892-03-08 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-03-08-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[137]

## 49th General Meeting--March 8th 1892.

### 49th meeting 12 E. Centre Street March 8th 1892.; Colvin--on "W[illia]m of Tyre" etc

The forty ninth meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, March 8th, after 3.30 o'clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about thirty two (32) persons present, among whom were Mrs. Burton Harrison, Mrs. Martin and Mrs. [sic] [Henrietta] Szold.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin read a paper upon "William of Tyre and his Works.” He was born about 1130--probably in Palestine, was well educated in Latin and Arabic, and said he spoke Greek. He was Canon of the Christian Church in Tyre, Bishop of Bethlehem, Archdeacon of Nazareth, and at one time, tutor to Baldwin--afterwards the Fourth--of Jerusalem. He was also a statesman when the power of Saladin began to threaten the Christian Kingdom of Jerusalem. His writings are: "A Report of the Third Lateran Council"; "History of the First Crusade"; William of Tyre far surpasses other writers of his time.

### Intermission to meet Mrs. B. Harrison, etc; Burton Harrison speaks

After the reading of this paper, the President called an intermission to enable the members of the Club to meet Mrs. Burton Harrison and other guests.

Mrs. Harrison thanks the Club in a few words for the kind reception given her, and said in reference to her literary work, that she had sought to conserve the habits of the Southern people, and hoped always to be remembered as a "daughter of the South.”[^Harrison]

[^Harrison]: Novelist [Constance Cary Harrison](https://encyclopediavirginia.org/entries/harrison-burton-mrs-1843-1920/) (1843-1920) belonged to a prominent Virginia family and supported the Confederacy during the Civil War. She married Burton Harrison, former private secretary to Jefferson Davis, in 1867 and the couple settled in New York City, where they became part of the city's social elite. Her best-known work was her 1911 novel _Recollections Grave and Gay_, but 1892 also was a notable year in her career, with the publication of several volumes of short stories and plays. Her works largely treated the experience of members of the Southern elite, expressing both nostalgia and ambivalence for the antebellum South.

### Szold--on "Jehudah Halevy"

Miss Henrietta Szold read an article upon "Jehudah Halevy" (Yehūdah Hallē'vi) dwelling upon Israel's history, and describing the Jews especially as "a spiritual fraternity,” and for many centuries heroes in  _intellectual_  combat. The Koran aptly calls them the "people of the Book,” and it is their study of the law that explains their continuity

[138]

and also their adaptability. Jehudah was full of good sense, and had high morals and an unfeigned love of nature--he was a poet but no soft sentimentalist. Early in life he wrote many poems and love songs; but after producing Kuzzery--a tale of the Kuzzár King and nation, he devoted himself entirely to Jerusalem, and became a religious poet soaring aloft, free from all personal selfishness. His elegies entitle him to a place among the world's poets. If Israel might only live up to his altruistic teaching!--for Jehudah is the spiritualized expression of the Jewish people.--

Before adjourning, the President announced that the programme the following week would be given by the Class in Political Economy started last year by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin].

The minutes of the last meeting were postponed, and the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)