---
title: 1892-03-01 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-03-01-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[133]

## Board Meeting March 1st 1892.

### Board of Management meeting 12 E. Centre Street March 1st 1892; On Club “Reception”; Invitations to newspaper representatives; Invitations engraved, monogram on paper, blank for name.; Board to be the Reception Committee; Academy of Sciences to be invited; Date to be April 19th.

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman’s Literary Club took place at 12 East Centre Street, Tuesday afternoon March 1st--2.30 o’clock--to make arrangements for the Club Reception to be given to the President and Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield.

The Second Vice-President was in the chair and nine (9) members were present.

It was decided to send invitations to representatives of the “Sun,” “American” and “Evening News” papers; to have the invitations engraved--with the Club monogram in lavender on the paper--not on the envelopes--to leave a blank for the name of the person invited, that the whole invitation may be put in the third person.

Decided that the Executive Board shall form the Reception Committee.

Agreed by vote, after discussion, that the whole Academy

[134]

of Sciences shall be invited.

Date of entertainment to be April 19th. Reading of minutes deferred for want of time.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Adopted by Board.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)