---
title: 1892-03-22 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-03-22-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[142]

## 51st General Meeting--March 22nd 1892

### 51st meeting. 12 E. Centre Street. March 22nd; Graham absent

The fifty first meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street Tuesday afternoon, March 22nd--3.30 o'clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about thirty six (36) persons present. The Secretary read the minutes of the preceding meeting.

The President announced the programme for the two following weeks. Also gave notice of a humorous reading by James Whitcomb Riley.

Mrs. John T. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham was expected to make an "Appeal to the King's Daughters,” but was unable to be present, and Miss Merrill[,] one of "The King's Daughters[,]" gave an outline of a proposed work in aid of tenement house reform in New York.

### Merrill--on "proposed work for tenement house reform."; Moore on "Free Kindergarten"; President--on "Nobler Life for Women.”

Time was given for discussion of the topic, and Miss [Henrietta] Szold suggested the need of municipal reform--Miss Merrill thought the proposed training house would improve the sentiment of the poor in the matter.

Mrs. Moore spoke upon the "Free Kindergarten" and its usefulness to the homes of the poor.

The President read a paper upon "The Nobler Life for Women" referring to the recent question proposed for discussion "Does the creative faculty exist in women" and speaking of the many articles contributed at present by women to magazines. "To be the uplifting, inspiring, sympathetic force is woman's place in God's creation.” Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull questioned if genius might not be shown in philanthropy and reform--and by women, and named Pandita Ramabai--great also in education. Woman should above all

[143]

"rule wisely" in the "Kingdom of home" and should "seek to be enlarged spiritually"; for the "highest beauty is perfect love.”

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)