---
title: 1892-01-19 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-01-19-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 44th General Meeting--January 19th 1892.

### 44th meeting 12 E. Centre Street January 19th 1892

The forty fourth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, January 19th after 3.30 o’clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about thirty three (33) persons present, among whom were Miss Agnes Repplier, and Miss Williams[,] Vice President of the Southern Literary Association.

### Brent’s paper chosen for re-reading; Letters from McConkey and Franklin

The President gave the list of those members whose papers had received votes from the Club from re-reading at the next Salon, and stated that Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent's paper (“Two Oriental Women”) had been chosen.

The President also read extracts from letters received from Miss [Rebecca] McCoukey--honorary member, and from Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin]--former Treasurer of the Club. The latter was from Göttingen.

### Miss A. Repplier: “A Literary Symposium”

Miss Agnes Repplier[^1-12_01] read a paper upon “A Literary Symposium” written for the Contemporary Club

[^1-12_01]: Essayist Agnes Repplier (1855-1950), born in Philadelphia, was prolific and widely published and syndicated during a 50-year career.  

[122]

of Philadelphia, dwelling humorously upon the efforts made in the present day to “live by the brains of others,” as partly shown by lists made of “the best hundred books,” “Books that have helped me,” etc, which have been solicited from strange and varied sources. Miss Repplier deplored that we should “replace literature with journalism,” and desire to publish and read what is written by those who have become in some way prominent rather than that which is in itself solid.

### Griffin on “Homer”; “Wrath of Achilles”

After thanks to Miss Repplier for her paper, Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin read an article upon “Homer” quoting from a professor that “classical knowledge is the substructure,” and saying that we should grow by old literature. In the childhood of the world, there were many fancies and fables about nature, and Homer is now “as a fresh beautiful child.” One who wishes to be ruler of his house, an orator, or a general should study Homer.

Mrs. Griffin gave the story of “The Wrath of Achilles,” speaking of the superb description of the horses, etc, of the strength on the Greek side, and the beauty, valor, and feminine softness among the Trojans. Helen was the ideal of beauty of the early Greek imagination, and Achilles summed up the idea of the Greek character. There is much parallelism between Greek and Hebrew history, and the Hebrew Bible student best understands Homer.[”]

### Latimer--”The Quarrel” in Iliad; Iliad divided into 2 parts

Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer read an adapted translation of “The Quarrel” in the Iliad, also speaking of the “grand roll of the Greek hexameter,” and the first magnificent line of the Iliad.

Mrs. Latimer divided the Iliad into two parts: “The Plot

[123]

Terrestrial” and “The Plot Celestial,” the first treating of the wrath of Achilles, and the second symbolizing the triumph of the cause of civilization and the Greeks.

She described also the character of Agamemnon--selfish but royal;--while Achilles laid down his life for his friend.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)