---
title: 1892-05-24 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-24-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[164]

## 58th Meeting May 24th 1892.

### 58th meeting 12 E. Centre Street May 22nd 1892; President--"Report" to Club: Home.; Members

The fifty eighth meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, May 22nd, after 3.30 o'clock. There were about forty two (42) persons present, with the President in the chair.

The President made her annual Report, speaking of the results already achieved and of the condition of the Club. The home offered by the Academy of Sciences should prove a centre of growth for us.

The President spoke of the membership of the Club--now over one hundred persons without the new names.

### Attendance and interest; "Topics" programme; "Committee" plan

The meetings have been well attended and encouraging and the interest shown in the papers read by the other members--has been remarked upon by the guests of the Club. The programmes of Topics distributed has made an improvement on last year's work--showing that better literary results are secured by the better arrangement of subjects.

The plan of the Committees is the life of the club, and it would be so wise if the members would early inform the Chairmen of papers written--The paper of course remains in possession of the writer who may revise or even re-write it at pleasure.

### "Economics" class; Committee on "Public Schools"; Delegates to Police Matrons' Board

The Class in Economics has been working earnestly outside of the Club; as also the Committee on Public Schools formed by request of the Commissioner; while two delegates have been sent to the Associated Committee for the examination of Police Matrons.

### "Maryland Library"; Representation desired at World's Fair

The President also spoke of the plan to form a Maryland library, suggesting that papers be scattered, asking contributions of books, and offering to head the subscriptions

[165]

to a friend--if started--for the purpose of collecting such books. Thanks are due to Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor for many of those already received.

Application has also been made by Committees of the World's Columbian Exposition that the work of our Club be represented there.

The President referred in kind words to the satisfactory report of the Treasurer, and to the work of the Secretary.

### Secretary read some minutes of Club; "Annual Address" of President; Elections to be following Tuesday.

By her request, the Secretary then read selections from the minutes of the Club.

These were followed by the "Annual Address" of the President in which she remarked upon the consideration already shown the Club by the Maryland Historical Society and the Academy of Sciences. She thought that if there should be adverse criticism anywhere, it ought to make us even more severe, more critical, more zealous, humble, eager in growth, and united--we should be a "moral, intellectual, and spiritual force in our community.” Let us aspire--we must have faith in ourselves if we would reach our aim; and we must be faithful to our duty. In reply to the question--often asked--why we are called a  _literary_  society when our Constitution is so broad, we may say that we not only seek to follow pure literature, but also to encourage great thoughts and movements treated in a literary way. Individuality and Catholicity are needed; and to follow the Constitution with regard to the adoption of "right and serious views of life and literature" is our hope. The President said she had striven not to seek her own specialty--nor to show marked sympathy for any branch of literature.--

[166]

Woman does not require so much teaching in specialties; but to become a rounded figure, a priestess, a mother.

Poetry--the emotional, spiritual feeling--is needed in these practical, scientific days; and indeed the real and the ideal should go hand in hand--for from the idea is developed the real, practical beneficent work.

The President hoped that this year has left traces of an inward growth, a glimpse of new fields of thought, spiritual sight, new opportunities, or wider friendships.

She also expressed thanks for the pleasure received by her the last two years through the Club and the Officers. The Officers had always--when called upon--responded promptly and courteously, and the zeal of the Chairmen had been untiring.

Indeed it is these we may thank for any usefulness and honor attained by the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore!

The President announced that the elections would be held the following Tuesday.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)