---
title: 1892-05-10 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-10-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[159]

## 56th General Meeting--May 10th 1892.

### 56th meeting 12 E. Centre Street May 10th 1892.; Constitution on Election Day etc. temporarily changed.; Treasurer's Report read. Auditing Committee appointed.

The fifty sixth general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, May 10th--3.30 o'clock. There were about thirty five (35) persons present.

The President was in the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read, approved and corrected. The Secretary also read for the second time the names of those approved by the Board for membership in the Club.

The temporary change in the Constitution proposed at the last meeting--to move the Salon this year from the last Tuesday in May to the first Tuesday in June, thus making the last Tuesday in May the day of election of Club officers--was again proposed, and passed.

As provided in the Constitution, the Treasurer's report was read to the Club. In compliance with the Treasurer's request, an auditing Committee to examine the report was appointed, consisting of Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord.

### Leakin--on "3 Women of Genius"; Dammann read Balch's paper on "Sappho.”

Miss Leakin read a paper upon "Three Women of Genius:" Mary of France--the Anglo--Norman poetess; Donna Agnes--famous in geometry; and Mary Somerville--the celebrated mathematician.

Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann read Miss [Grace] Balch's paper "Sappho, a Woman of Genius,” tracing the life of Sappho, referring to her as the head of a school of poetry and music, and citing the fragment "Ad Lesbian" as a sample of her poetic art.

### Woolsey Johnson on "Colleges on the Cam.”

Mrs. Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson's article was upon "Colleges on the Cam,” and gave a description of University and College life in Cambridge, England. Mrs. Johnson contrasted the English University with the College--

[160]

the University examines students and confers degrees, while the College prepares the students for examination. The ordinary graduate of a university may stay there indefinitely and be often plucked, by the "honor" man must take his "tripos" at the end of nine terms. The Chancellor is the head of the University--the Master is the head of the College.

The Professors belong only to the University--the special chair of Regius Professor of Greek--now held by Mr Jebb, was founded by Henry VIII in 1540\. The Fellows are the legal trustees, and the beneficiaries of the endowments of the Colleges, and are elected only for scholarship;--of these fellowships Trinity College has sixty.--Fellows need not teach at the College ,and may reside elsewhere.

The Tutors are the heads of the College educational department, and look after students--choosing their lectures and selecting their lodgings.

The Proctors and Pro-proctors are the civil officers, and have under them their bull-dogs who are sworn constables empowered to make arrests.

Mrs. Johnson referred also to the promise given by the recent vote, that women will soon be admitted to University honors.

### On book and programmes for World's Fair.

The President spoke to the Club of the book to be compiled for the World's Fair from the writings of our members, and of the programmes of meetings. It was stated that suggestions will be welcome. The Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)