---
title: 1892-04-12 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-04-12-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 53rd General Meeting--April 12th 1892.

### 53rd meeting. 12 E. Centre Street. April 12th 1892; Sioussat--"Report of Committee on Battle Guilford Court House."; Vote of thanks to Committee

The fifty third meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street on Tuesday afternoon, April 12th, 3.30 o'clock, with the President in the chair.

There were about forty one (41) persons present.

The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary.

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat read the "Report of the Committee on the Battle of Guilford Court House[,]" showing the very important part taken by the Maryland forces in that engagement and during the campaign.

At the President's suggestion, a vote of thanks was passed by the Club to the Committee--Mrs. Sioussat and Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor--for the paper.

### Reception instead of afternoon meeting; Stedman and Jebb on work of Club; President introduced Lanier to Jebb

The President asked that the names of papers prepared might be sent to her, announced that the Reception would replace the afternoon meeting on the following Tuesday, and suggested that on account of the unexpected failure of programmes, readings should now be given from the books of Club members.

The President states that Mr Stedman and Mr Jebb

[146]

had praised the work of the Club--that of Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter, Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese and Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud--and also said that she had made Mr Lanier's works known to Mr Jebb who would take them to Mr Tennyson.[^Jebb]

[^Jebb]: Edmund Clarence Stedman (1833-1908) was a poet, journalist, scientist, and the editor of several important early anthologies of American literature, several of which included works by members of the WLCB, with which he had a long association Richard Claverhouse Jebb (1874-1953) was a renowned classicist at Cambridge University; he delivered 8 lectures drawn from his book _The Growth and Influence of Classical Greek Poetry_ (1893) at Johns Hopkins University as part of the Turnbull Poetry Lectures, established by Turnbull and her husband Lawrence in honor of their son Percy, in 1892. Stedman had delivered the inaugural series of Turnbull Poetry Lectures the previous year. Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809-1892) was the poet perhaps most strongly identified with British Victorianism. He died in October of 1892, so it is unlikely that Jebb's intercession on the WLCB's behalf came to much effect.
 
### President--Reading from "Catholic Man"; Note from President accepting invitation to Reception

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton requested that the President would read her favorite passage from her own book, and the President consented and read from "The Catholic Man" a portion of the scene of "Paul's Choice of a Profession.” Before finishing the selection the President was obliged to leave the Club, and the Second Vice President took the chair.

The Secretary read the note from the President, accepting the invitation to the Reception.

### Vote of thanks to Turnbull for Stedman and Jebb lectures; Resolution of thanks.

A vote of thanks was passed by the Club to the President declaring its appreciation as a literary society of the lectures resulting given in Baltimore by Mr Jebb and Mr Stedman through Mrs. Lawrence [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

Mrs. Sioussat was appointed to draw up the resolution and the Secretary was requested to forward it to the President and to enter it upon the minutes of the Club. The resolution is as follows.

[Resolution appears to have been omitted.]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)