---
title: 1892-04-26 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-04-26-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[149]

## 54th General Meeting--April 26th 1892.

### 54th meeting 12 E. Centre Street. April 26th 1892; Letter from President on Reception of thanks passed her; President--thanks for Reception--Club congratulations by the Societies.

The fifty fourth general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club took place at 12 East Centre Street--on Tuesday afternoon, April 26th--3.30 o'clock.

The President was in the chair.

The minutes of the fifty third general meeting and of the Reception were read by the Secretary, and a letter from Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull expressing her pleasure at the Resolution of thanks passed by the Club for the lectures by Mr Stedman and Mr Jebb.

The President thanked the members in person for the Reception tendered her and Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield, and referred to warm congratulations made the Club on that occasion by the Historical Society and the Maryland Academy of Scienes.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

## [54th meeting, continued]

### 54th meeting Continued; Announcements; On new members to be elected

Notes of the latter part of the meeting of the Woman's Literary Club, on Tuesday afternoon, April 26th 1892.

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull announced that the next meeting of the Club, on May 3rd, would be under the direction of the Committee on "Current Criticism,” of which Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann is Chairman.

It was also announced that on the same afternoon there will be an executive meeting, at which the names of new members are to be presented for election.

The President called attention to the rules of the Constitution with regard to the election of new members, to the qualifications of new members, and suggested

[150]

that those who had names to propose should consult with the members of the board of management on the subject.

### Letter from Robinson and Easby on Police Matron Board; Delegate asked; Delegate chosen

Mrs. Turnbull next read a letter from Mrs. Edward A. Robinson and Mrs. Easby, of the Committee to which the appointment of Police Matrons in Baltimore has been referred by the municipal authorities; requesting the co-operation of the Woman's Literary Club, in securing the best persons to fill these important and much needed positions.

The Club was requested to send a delegate to represent it on the committee of twenty women of good standing to whom the responsible work of choosing Police Matrons is to be committed.

It was moved by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, and seconded by Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, that such a delegate be appointed,--to which the Club agreed. Mrs. Turnbull suggested the name of Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin, as that of a member who would well represent the Club, and who was interested in the work proposed. Mrs. Griffin having received the appointment, Miss Haughton was requested to inform her of that fact.

### Easby--on "Development of our Country in Works of Fiction"; Comments on paper

The literary paper of the meeting was given by Mrs. [Gertrude Klein Peirce] Easby of Philadelphia. It was on "The Development of our Country in the Works of Fiction.”[^Easby] She referred to the historical labors of Mr Fiske and others. She spoke of the latest elaborated theories that the aborigines of our own continent were of one race only; that its varieties have been differentiated as those of our European ancestors have been;--in love and war and romance developing strong characters.

[^Easby]: Gertrude Klein Peirce (1859-1953) was one of the first women to be admitted to the University of Pennsylvania. Although the university did not grant degrees to women until 1914, she earned a certificate of proficiency in Chemistry in 1878. She married Francis Easby in 1884; the couple lived in Philadelphia and in Delaware.  In her paper, Easby offers a wide-ranging overview of American literary history emphasizing the process of settlement-conquest, beginning with the Spanish conquistadors and concluding with the postbellum period, and pointedly including a number of women authors, including Harriet Beecher Stowe, Helen Hunt Jackson (_Ramona_,  1884) and "their own" Mary Spear Tiernan (_Homoselle_1881_, and _Jack Horner_, 1890).

[151]

She went back to the romantic stories of the early discoverers before Columbus, to Columbus himself and Queen Isabella, to those who have given us stories about the early settlers of our continent, from Fernando Esteban to Charles Kingsley, in his "Westward Ho!" Then to Captain John Smith, "champion liar,” as she said, "who gave us another side of the subject, which, perhaps, we can not afford to lose. She passed on to Washington Irving's "veracious" Knickerbocker History of New York, to Longfellow's Miles Standish and Whittier's New England legends. Then to Hawthorne's wonderful tales from the Grandfather's Chair to the "Scarlet Letter"--from the stories of Governor Endicott, and the red cross he cut out of the flag, and the May-pole he cut down at Merry Mount, to the weird magical legends of the Province House, the home of the colonial governors of Massachusetts. She reminded us of the reception of the republican governor of the state, John Hancock, when the loyalist "Colonial Dame" old Esther Dudley, handed him the key of the Province House with the cry: "God save King George!" This is according to Hawthorne, but if perchance there is more fiction than truth in his charming legends, we will not quarrel with him for telling them to us. We were told of the stories about Governor Bellingham and Sir Edmond Andros, of those recalling the far more gracious presence of William Penn, under the elm tree: Then the stories of our own state of Maryland, those of our former fellow townsman, John P. Kennedy, and of W.H. Carpenter on Clayborne's

[152]

Rebellion; the stories of William Gilmore Simms, and the "Block House on the Prairie,” Spielhagen's tale of German emigrants; Then Thackeray's Virginians, with its first mention of George Washington in fiction. We were reminded of the heroic picture of General Wolfe, and of Thackeray's "very English" ignorance of American geography; how he makes Washington travel in three hours a distance which requires at least three times as long to transverse now. And that we like Henry Esmond Warrington far better when he generously rejoices over his brother's return to life than we do when he is the petted favorite of the old bishop's widow, who--was--, as she says, Beatrix Esmond, his grandfather's lady-love. We were told of the delightful letters of Abigail Adams;--of the "Midnight Ride of Paul Revere";--of Cooper, in the "Spy,” and his Indian novels; of the story of Edwin Brethertoft, and of André, worthy of a better fate; of the stories of Red Jacket and Brandt; and Campbell's "Gertrude of Wyomming.” Then of Mrs. Stowe's "Minister's Wooing" and "Old Town Folks,” and "Uncle Tom's Cabin.” and the many books written on both sides of a vexed question.

For the literature of the war of 1812, Mrs. Easby thought that the "Star Spangled Banner" seems to stand almost alone. She spoke of the "Bigelow Papers" relating to the Mexican War and the Civil War, of Sam Slick the pure patriot, and of Cable's "Strange New Stories of Louisiana.” Then of Theodore Winthrop's "John Brent,” and "the finest horse story

[153]

in literature." Also of Mr James's Virginia story, in which there is no "solitary horseman" at all. Then of the work of one of our own members,--whom our club always holds in remembrance,--of "Homoselle" and "Jack Horner.” Then of the author of "Ramona,” of Mrs. Custer and of Captain King. These and more of our old and new friends passed like a living procession before our eyes.

Mrs. Easby's article was followed by entertaining comments from Miss [Mary F.] Grace, Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham and Mrs. Turnbull.

### On Annual Club elections. Club Salon; Books from General Bradley Johnson.; Mrs. Anderson presented.

The President announced that at our last two meetings in May would be held the annual election of officers of the Club, and the closing "Salon" of the season. Also that three books had been presented to the Club by General Bradley T. Johnson.

Before the adjournment, Mrs. Joseph R. Anderson of Richmond, Virginia, was presented to the Club, as the guest of the meeting.

The preceding notes of the latter part of the 54th meeting of the Woman's Literary Club have been taken from those kindly prepared by Miss Lydia Crane during the Secretary's absence.[^crane]

[^crane]: The marked difference in length and detail of minutes for this meeting indicates Crane's influence, which would dictate the style and tenor of the Club minutes for the next two decades.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)