---
title: 1892-05-03 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-03-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[156]

## 55th General Meeting--May 3rd 1892.

### 55th meeting 12 E. Centre St. May 3rd 1892.; Committee of "Current Criticism.”; Another delegate (2nd) to Board on Police Matrons; 12 names of new members read; Motion on changing Election Day temporarily and moving Salon:--to be repeated.; 3 Pamphlets on A.A.W. from Dr Mark; "Sappho" from Mrs. Early; Loyola College Debate

The fifty fifth general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, May 2nd--3.30 o'clock.[^note]

The President was in the chair.

There were about thirty four (34) members present.

The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary, and by Miss [Lydia] Crane who had kindly consented to take the larger part of the minutes during the Secretary's absence.

The President states that by request Miss [Eliza] Ridgely's name had been added to the Board formed for the recommendation of Police Matrons.

Twelve (12) names of Candidates approved by the Board for membership in the Club were read by the Secretary.

A motion was proposed by Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, seconded by Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin, that the Constitution be temporarily changed, so that the Salon be transferred to the first Tuesday in June from the last Tuesday in May, thus making the last Tuesday in May the day of election of Club officers. Motion to be again considered by the Club the following Tuesday according to the Constitution.

The President announced that three pamphlets had been received from Dr Mark in connection with the Association for the Advancement of Women and a "Literal Translation of Sappho" from Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early.

The President also announced that the Club members were invited to the Loyola College Debate to be held at Lehmann's Hall.

[^note]: Ridgely's note: May 3rd.

[157]

### Crane--Readings of Criticisms on Easter's book--by Latimer, Graham and Lord;  

Miss Lydia Crane read three very favorable criticisms on Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter's book "Clytie and Other Poems.” The criticisms were by Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer, Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, and Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord.

### Cloud--poems Mrs. Easter

Miss Virginia [Woodward] Cloud read "The Face of Raffaeta" and "Most Days it Comforts Me"--two poems also written by Mrs. Marguerite E. Easter.

The President stated that Mrs. Easter had received many congratulations in addition to those made her by the Club.

### Manly--"Notes on Gilbert Elga's Son"; Jenkins--on "10 Tales" of Maupassant, Brown--on "Two Novels"; Reese--on "Barrie's Novels"

Mrs. [Gaston] Manly read "Notes on Gilbert Elga's Son"--a book written by Mrs. Harriet Davis, the scene of which is laid among the Quakers in Montgomery County, Maryland.

Mrs. [Martha Lee] Jenkins gave "A Review of the Ten Tales" of Guy de Maupassant, citing his axiom that "to prove you have first rate talent you must show first rate style,” contrasting his tale "L'Orage" with the simple story a "Piece of String,” and praising also his "Moonlight,” etc.

Miss Mary Willcox Brown read a criticism of "Two Novels"--"Taras Bulba" by Gogol and "Rois en Exile" by Daudet.

Miss Lizette Woodworth Reese read a paper upon "Barrie's Novels"--so true, simple, lifelike, pathetic, and sometimes humorous--giving words of special admiration to "Thrums.” Miss Reese also told how the story grew from Barrie's homesick feelings for his native weaving village.

### On book for representation at World's Fair; Criticisms on books of light reading suggested--President.

The President announced the programme for the following Tuesday, and also that in consequence of several requests that the Club should be represented

[158]

at the World's Fair, it had been decided by the Board that selections should be made of the best Club papers of the last two years, and that these should be sent to the Fair to represent the Club. Suggestions on the subject will be gladly received.

The President also thought that during the summer members might make criticisms upon books of light reading for the Current Criticism Committee.

### Dammann on "Lawrence Oliphant.”

Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann--Chairman of this Committee and of the day's entertainment, gave a condensed Outline of the Life of "Laurence Oliphant,” taken from the "Memoir of Laurence Oliphant and of Alice Oliphant his wife." In closing, Mrs. Dammann recalled Mr Gifford Palgrave, and contrasted his character and work with that of Laurence Oliphant.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely.
Secretary.
Adopted and corrected.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)