---
title: 1892-05-31 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-31-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[167]

## 59th Meeting. May 31st, 1892.

At No 12 East Centre Street.

### Notice of Election; Temporary President--Secretary and tellers.

The meeting was called to order by the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, who announced that the regular annual election for all the officers of the Club, was now to be held.

She requested that a temporary president should be nominated, and voted for; who should appoint a secretary and two letters to assist her in conducting the election.

Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann nominated by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat was elected as temporary president, Mrs. [Gaston] Manly was appointed secretary, and Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson and Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud as tellers.

### Voting by proxy; Voting for names put in nomination

The question then arose whether voting by proxy was in order--or allowable. Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson and Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin gave us some clear and forcible reasoning against that kind of voting. Mrs. Johnson read us the Article of our Constitution "On Elections"; and made a motion that only members present should be allowed to vote. This motion she afterwards withdrew, on hearing that many members had understood that they were to be allowed to vote by proxy on this occasion.

After some interesting discussion and lively conversation, the voting began--, by ballot. During its progress the suggestion was made that the members should confine themselves as much as possible to the names put in nomination, in order to prevent scattering and losing their votes.

[168]

### President; First Vice President; Second Vice President; Secretary; Question of having a Corresponding Secretary; Treasurer; Executive Committee.

Mrs. Turnbull was the only nomination for president;--and she was immediately re-elected.

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin having declined the nomination for re-election as First Vice President, and Mrs. Colvin declining a nomination for that office, our Second Vice President for the last two years, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, was elected First Vice President.

Mrs. Sioussat was elected Second Vice President.

Miss [Eliza] Ridgely, who has, for the last two years, filled the position of our secretary, positively declined--to our great regret--to be re-elected. Miss Edith Duer and Miss Lydia Crane were nominated to succeed her. Miss Crane, however, distinctly stated that she could not think of undertaking to do the work Miss Ridgely has done successfully for the last two years: that her engagement would only allow her to attempt to be the Recording Secretary of the Club. With this stipulation, Miss Crane was elected to that office.

The question of having a Corresponding Secretary of the Club was deferred to a later occasion, Mrs. Griffin generously offering to do some of the work needed in the mean time.

Miss Thompson was unanimously re-elected Treasurer.

The Executive Committee who were elected separated, were: First, Mrs. Mary Noyes

[169]

Colvin--Second, Miss Eliza Ridgely,--Third, Mrs. William Wolsey [Woolsey] Johnson, --Fourth, Miss Henrietta Szold,--Fifth, Miss Mary Grace,--Sixth, Miss Mary Wilcox Brown.

Although we were not--

<poetry>
"--freemen, casting with unpurchased hand
The vote that shakes the turrets of the land,”</poetry>

the election was carried on with great spirit and interest.

After numerous pleasant congratulations, our President said that "many of us would wish our Board of Management to be twice as large as it is, as there are many members whom we delight to honor."

The President also announced that our next meeting would be a "Salon,”--and the closing one of the season.

Adjourned.
Approved.

Lydia Crane.
Secretary.
Written from memory,
by the newly-elected secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)