---
title: 1892-03-15 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-03-15-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[139]

## 50th General Meeting--March 15th 1892.

### 50th meeting 12 E. Centre Street March 15th; Should there be monument erected at Guilford Court House?; Books and address given Club

The fiftieth general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, March 15th,--3.30 o'clock, with the President in the chair. There were about fifty four (54) persons present. The Secretary read the minutes of March 1st and 8th which were adopted.

The President made mention of a letter she had received which suggested that it would be a mistake to place a monument to the Maryland revolutionary soldiers at Guilford Court House--the scene of their defeat. The matter was referred to Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor for investigation.

The President announced the gift of books--made to the Club by Mr Carpenter and Mr Teackle Wallis, and of an address on the McDonogh school by Mr Charles Lanier.

The first Vice President said that a talk will be given by Mrs. [Henry] Stockbridge on the admirable Oriental Collection in Mrs. Walters' Gallery.

The literary programme of the afternoon was presented by the Class of Political Economy.

### Sioussat--on "The Mosaic Agrarian Law"

Mrs. Sioussat contributed the first paper on "The Mosaic Agrarian Law,” referring to the Club and to the Class of Political Economy which had grown from it; tracing the ancient ideas of the tenure of land, and speaking of the advancing civilization of the ancients--their passage from tents to huts--thence to houses grouped about a Rappa[^rappa] field--thus making a street. Mrs. Sioussat spoke of the view once held that the earth was the Lord's and therefore common to all men who might cultivate it--

[^rappa]: Rapa is another name for rapini or broccoli rabe, a bitter, broccoli-like vegetable used in Mediterranean cuisines.

[140]

of the allotment of the land by families who retained it--and of the Mosaic law which allowed a man to redeem his land in seven years and made the restitution of it obligatory in the fiftieth year--the year of jubilee.[^Mosaic] This plan according to Rabbi Szold would remedy many drawbacks and simplify complex relations.

[^Mosaic]: Mosaic law originated with the Ten Commandments given to Moses and encompasses the Pentateuch of the Hebrew Bible. 

### Brown--on "The Russian Mir"

Miss Mary Willcox Brown read an article upon "The Russian Mir" speaking of the present state of Russia where there is no scientific cultivation of the earth and only two per cent of the population attend school while a strict censorship is placed upon the press. There is in contrast an old Sclavonic [Slavonic] legend that in a certain neighborhood, any citizen could call a meeting to consider a wrong done or to discuss any policy of the government. The Muscovite rule suppressed this freedom. The Mir is a community ruled by an elder who apportions the land to the peasants and the moujik in return pays his part of the tax and harvests when the elder appoints. When absent from the Mir, he must pay his allotted portion and must return if required. Women rule in the absence of men. The weakness of Mir is that it discourages personal labor or ambition and stays improvements as the peasant must divide with his associates. The tax collector is the great curse of the peasants for ninety per cent of the possible gains of the most fertile land must be paid out for taxes, etc., and if the required amount is not forthcoming, the peasant may be reduced to a state of hopeless indebtedness. Nihilism asked of the

[141]

former Czar a constituent assembly and pledged no violence. Nihilism is a hope for the nation and is not anarchism.

### Thompson on "Trades Unions for Women.”

Miss Charlotte [de Macklot] Thompson read a paper upon "Trades Unions for Women.” The objects of these Unions are to secure justice for each laborer and the rights of the worker; to establish uniform wages everywhere; and to assist disabled laborers. The Trades Union is properly not aggressive but protective. The great body of the Knights of Labor was for eleven years preparing for its present position. The unprotected woman laborers must enter the trades unions.

The President announced that Mr Jebb's lectures will take place in Peabody Hall beginning March 28th; and gave the programme for Tuesday next.

An opportunity was then given the Club to meet Miss Merrill of Mississippi, a member of the "King's Daughters,” ("Circle of the(?)"), and of the Cha[u]tauqua Club.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)