---
title: 1892-05-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-17-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 57th General Meeting, May 17th, 1892.

### 57th meeting 12 E. Centre Street May 17th 1892.; Auditing Committee on Treasurer's Report.; Vote of thanks to Treasurer.; President on honorary-member's work

The fifty seventh general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, May 17th--3.30 o'clock.

There were about thirty six (36) persons present with the President in the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary. Mrs. Charles W. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord--for the Auditing Committee--reported that the balance in the treasurey [treasury] was $119.49 and said that it had been a real pleasure to look over the Treasurer's accounts, as they had been kept with so much correctness and order. The President thought that thanks of the Club were due to the Treasurer, and a vote of thanks to Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson for her faithful work was proposed by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, seconded by Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman, and unanimously passed by the Club.

[163]

### Briscoe--"The Tousey Girls' Sale.”; Lord--poems from "Symphony in Dreamland.”

The President referred to the work of a new honorary member--Miss Sarah Adams.

Miss Margaret [Sutton] Briscoe read a story called "The Tousey Girls' Sale"--a sketch of the poverty and tribulations of two unsuccessful women farmers.

Mrs. Charles W. Lord gave the following selections from her book "A Symphony in Dreamland,” namely" "Rubinstein's Ocean Symphony" in four movements, "The Song of the Summer Wind" and "My Philosophy.”

### Haughton reads Cloud's story "Postal Service of Shezar of Shezak."

Miss L.C. Osburne [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton read a tale called "The Postal Service of the Shezar of Shezak,” which had been obtained from one of the story writers of the Club, and which was prepared for a Child's Magazine.

This story gave the cause of the substitution of writing for messenger service in the Kingdom of Shezak.

The Club was requested to name the writer and,--among others--several  _correct_  guesses were made for Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud.

### Carter presents Miss Randolph's books and speaks on Miss Randolph's character

Miss Polly Carter presented two books which Miss Sarah Randolph--lately deceased--had wished the Club to receive as gifts from her.--One was the "Life of Thomas Jefferson" to whom Miss Randolph was related.

Miss Carter spoke of the great charity of Miss Randolph, and told how she had in a few years raised and paid $40,000 towards the removal of a debt upon an old family place.

Miss Carter also said that Miss Randolph had been the friend, relation, and chosen companion of Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan.

### Library Association to meet.

The President announced the the Club the meeting of the Library Association to take place at the Peabody, and the Chair adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)