---
title: 1892-05-17 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-17-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[161]

## Board of Management Meeting--May 17th, 1892.

### Board of Management meeting 12 E. Centre Street May 17th 1892.; 500 Salon Cards; New members to be asked to next meeting and to Salon--not Election Day.; Card of Club; New members adopted.

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, May 17th, after 2.30 o'clock.

Nine (9) members were present, with the President in the chair.

The minutes of the meetings of May 2nd and 10th were read by the Secretary and adopted by the Board.

The Secretary asked to be authorized to have five hundred Salon cards printed. Allowed.

The new members are to be invited to the next meeting and to the Salon in June, but of course have no vote in the elections.

Discussed whether we shall have a Card of Club Membership. A model was shown by the President, and, after discussion, a motion to adopt it was made by Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin, seconded by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton,

[162]

and passed. This certificate to be given up by a member on her resignation.

### On Committees; Suggestion--A Conference of Committees.

The President wished to scatter the Topic papers before summer, and the question of Committees was taken up. Decided to continue the same general plan of Committees with a few alterations of last season's title.s

The Secretary suggested a Conference of Chairmen that they might consider together a plan of work.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)