---
title: 1892-05-03 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-05-03-BOM.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[154]

## Board Meeting--May 3rd 1892.

### Board of Management meeting. 12 E. Centre Street. May 3rd 1892; For approval of new members; Resolution of thanks passed Messrs. Turnbull and Reeves; Mrs. Warren re-elected; 11 names approved; On ac[count] of mistake--non-appearance of 12th name, though properly prepared, Brown allowed to re-present it. Approved.

A meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon May 2nd[^note]--2.30 o'clock--for the approval of new members according to the Constitution.

[^note]: _Secretary's note_: May 3rd.

The minutes of the Board meetings of April 14th and May 2nd were read by the Secretary and adopted by the Board.

Ten (10) members were present, and the President was in the chair.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, seconded by Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson, moved that a resolution of thanks be passed to Mr Edwin Turnbull and to Mr Jesse Reeves for their assistance at the Reception. Carried.

The President suggested for re-election by the Board, Mrs. Minturn Warren--who had been unable previously to attend the Club meetings. Elected. (See Minutes Board Meeting--November 10th 1891.)

Eleven (11) new members were approved.

The twelfth name--properly prepared in writing by Miss Mary Willcox [Wilcox] Brown and sent by mail--had failed to reach the Secretary and was not reported. Miss Brown was on this account permitted by special motion to prepare again and to present the name in full form to the Board while in session.

The name was approved.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.

Adopted by the Board May 17th 1892.


<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)