---
title: 1892-04-05 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-04-05-meeting.html
season: second
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[144]

## 52nd General Meeting--April 5th 1892.

### 52nd meeting. 12 E. Centre Street. April 5th 1892.

The fifty-second general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held at 12 East Centre Street, on Tuesday afternoon, April 5th--3.30 o'clock, with the First Vice President in the chair.

There were about thirty eight (38) persons present.

The Secretary read the minutes of the two preceding meetings.

### Lord on "Dickens and Gadshill" and poem--"A Dickens Reverie.”; Miller--"Critical Review" of Dickens

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord read an article upon "Dickens and Gadshill" ending with a poem: "A Dickens Reverie.”

Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller gave "A Critical Review" of Dickens describing him as a philanthropist and a genius, although too elaborate and verbose in style.

The Presiding Officer repeated the notice of Miss [Lucy] Comins' lectures on "Modern Illustrations.”

### Crane Thackeray's tribute to Dickens.; Crane--Reading from Dickens

Miss [Lydia] Crane read Thackeray's beautiful tribute to Dickens from the "Lecture on Charity and Humor,” and showed the pressed bouquet that had been worn by Dickens at his last reading in Baltimore, and afterwards sent by him to Miss Crane's sister the authoress of "Emily Chester.”

Miss Crane also read some "Humorous Sketches" from "Nicholas Nickleby": "Mrs. Nickleby talks to her Son at Night,” and "Kate sees the mad man who made Love to her Mother.”

### Cloud--Reading from Dickens; Dammann--poem "The Church Poor Box" by Dickens; Fullerton on Dickens "Chas Dickens--The old, old Fashion Death"

Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud read pathetic selections from "Dombey and Son": "Paul Dombey leaves School,” and "Paul at Home."

"The Church Poor Box"--a poem of Dickens--was read by Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, and also a contribution

[145]

of Mrs. Eleanor Fullerton now of Denver, Colorado, on "Charles Dickens--The Old, old Fashion Death.”

### Graham--"To Chas. Dickens--Prince of Story Tellers"; Vote thanks to Needles.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham read original verses To Charles Dickens--The Prince of Story Tellers. "Lord Keep My Memory Green"(?).

A vote of thanks to Miss Needles for her gift to the Club of a photograph of "The Old Curiosity Shop" was proposed by Mrs. Graham and seconded by Mrs. Lord.

Adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary.
Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Asecond)