---
title: 1892-11-15 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-11-15-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 64th General Meeting. [Nov. 15, 1892]

The 64th General Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, November 15th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

There were several guests present; including Miss Litchfield [Grace Denio Litchfield], and Mrs. Joh[n?] Stewart.

The President called the Meeting to order. The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the previous Meeting, on November 8th.

A letter was read from Mrs. Margaret J. Preston, expressing her appreciation of the honor conferred upon her, by her election to honorary membership in the Woman's Literary Club; but also her regret that the state of her health--from ner-

[224]

vous prostration--would prevent her from enjoying often the privileges of membership.

The President announced also that we had expected to have had as a guest this afternoon, Miss Woolsey, also known as "Susan Coolidge";[^Woolsey] and had hoped to hear her read one of her own poems; but that she had received a note from Miss Woolsey; saying that she was not feeling well, and was unable to be present with us.

[^Woolsey]: Sarah Chauncey Woolsey (1835-1905) was best known for her children's novel _What Katy Did,_ published in 1872. Her younger sister, Elizabeth Dwight Woolsey, married Daniel Coit Gilman, president of Johns Hopkins University and friends of Francese and Lawrence Turnbull.

Announcement was made of a paper by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, to be read at the next meeting.

The first Reading of this afternoon by Miss Grace Denio Litchfield, of a story of her own: "The Price I Paid for a Set of Ruskin."[^Ruskin]

[^Ruskin]: "The Price I Paid for a Set of Ruskin" was published in the October 1884 issue of _Century_ magazine.

She drew, with humor and pathos, the picture of the widowed village clergyman, with the usual baker's dozen of children, and the usual inadequate salary,--taken from the point of view of his eldest daughter; who idolizes her father, and tries to be a mother to the rest of the family.

Her idol, being fascinated by a lovely "Set of Ruskin," she takes the bold resolution of procuring it for him, by writing a Story:--being perfectly satisfied that she is not a story-teller born. But, being mindful perhaps of the counsel: "Look in thine heart, and write!" she concludes to open her heart and to tell the one romance of her life;--the events of one summer spent away from home,--and never told at home. The--apparently--full suc[c]ess of the venture,--the delight of receiving the money for it,--and the still greater delight of the approval and admiration of the Story by the

[225]

adored father himself, are followed by the black looks of the neighbors, and their pertinacious accusations of her having put them into her book, of having told their family secrets.

Then comes the dismal disappointment, when the beautiful "Set of Ruskin" is presented to the father, and he can hardly look at it; having just been asked by his vestry to resign his pastorate.

Installed in another home, the self-sacrificing daughter never touches, and can not bear to look at the “Set of Ruskin”;--and this, let us hope, is the last installment of the price she has paid for it. Certainly Mr. Ruskin never had so large a price paid for his Works before--or since.

The heroine of the story is quite charming; so are her father, and little brother, in their way; and the wrong headed egotists of the village people, who “would not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely”, are very real and natural to us:--and we shall hope to hear Miss Litchfield read again to us.

Our next reading was of an Essay by Mrs. Lawrence [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, on: “Fiction as an Art.”

She spoke of Art as an appeal to [o]ur higher nature, as the expression of beauty, by which the nobler part of the soul of man is moved; of the beauty of holiness,--for that holiness is beauty also. That true art is spiritual; and appeals with various voices to our needs, and ministers to our ideals. That the art of fiction carries with it great responsibilities for good or evil.

Study will not produce creation; there must be no chance fiction,--art is something inborn. As poetry is “the rhythmic creation of beauty,” fiction may be a

[226]

lower form of art. Yet, in poetic writing, an artistic form or manner can be mistaken for true art. In literature, the most comprehensive of all arts; we have creative poetry and fiction; as well as history, criticism and biography; and all can be true art also.

Our essayist thought that the real art-function in fiction is to please,--to give pleasure,--though to improve also is in nothing opposed to the true art purpose.

“The art of fiction has its many schools, and their various methods;--each elects his own form of fiction;--modes are made the question of individual gifts.” A real message must be clothed in right words;--the effect of study must often be good words.

“Why should not the artist be his own best critic?” He should “know whether the picture brings back the inspiration of its first creation.”

Mrs. Turnbull quoted from Mr. [William Dean] Howells, with much agreement, and some disagreement. She quoted his opinions on literature’s keeping pace with its own time; thinking that it should have an exquisite power of response to the yearnings and the satisfactions of the age.

She spoke of the realism of Moritz [Maurice] Maeterlinck; which, with no appeal to exited emotions, has a wonderful power to make us hold our breath, and to feel the might of silence through his words;--a power far beyond that of the word painting of [Henrik] Ibsen, or the dreams of Olive Schreiner. She spoke of realism as distinctly the color of the fiction of today. But, without denying to men realities, we can believe that men’s souls are made larger by idealism. The true artist can give the beauty of a face, because he realizes the spirit which informs it.

She quoted other writers, and said that the de-

[227]

cline of fancy had been traced to the advance of science. But that there are counter currents and reversions, very likely, fancy is declining;--but there has been no better time to read romances than the close of the long nineteenth century. Romances seem to hold some sympathy with modern thought.

There are many--perhaps too many--society novels; but there is artistic work done in short stories; and in this department of fiction American women are in advance of men. The London Spectator gives the American short story a very high rank.

Caricature is a darker side of literature, disregard of proportion detracts from strength.

There is much about local usage, local distinctions and dialects in the fiction--in the literature--of today. We were reminded of many of the New England pictures--which make us long to throw the sunshine into them. Also, that over introspection distinctly mars artistic work.

That the art of fiction, with true souls[,] is a gift, held in trust, a privilege and a delight. That there should be no unnecessary, careless work,--work that needs not to have been done. And that specialism excludes breadth in art.

But, we were told, there are some prophecies that realism has begun to re-act; that the advanced school of realism has been a sort of school master for the art yet to come; that we shall have a new classicism, like the classicism of the Greeks; that the new strivings of souls shall not be by the teachings of the life of pain; that the poetry of tomorrow shall be large and joyful; and, that,--not thrust out by minor tones,--joy shall be the key-note of the better time, of the art of the future.

[228]

We had expected to have an Article by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, but there was some change in the programme, and she requested that her reading might be left out. We can hope that it is only deferred.

After some little conversation, the Meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)