---
title: 1892-11-22 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-11-22-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 65th General Meeting [Nov. 22, 1892]

The 65th General Meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon November 22nd, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, being unable to be present, the Club was called to order by the First Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, who presided at this Meeting.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the Meeting of November 15th;--which were adopted.

It was announced that Mrs. Johnson, the lady who has the responsible position of superintendent, of the prison for women at Sherborn, Massachusetts,[^MRW] will be in Baltimore at the approaching Prison Reform Congress; and that our fellow member, Mrs.  [M. N.] Perry, will open her parlors,--920 Madison Avenue,--on Tuesday, November 29th at half past 11 A.M., to those of us who wish to meet Mrs. Johnson; and will be glad to have the members of the Club avail themselves of the opportunity to make that lady’s acquaintance.

[^MRW]: The Massachusetts Reformatory for Women opened in Sherborn, MA in 1877. It is now known as the Massacusetts Correctional Institution-Framingham. Clara Barton served as superintendent of the prison for nine months in 1883 and was replaced by Ellen Johnson, discussed at this meeting.

Miss [Elizabeth] Adams was requested to tell us something more about Mrs. [Ellen] Johnson, and her work. Miss Adams spoke of a visit of three days she had made to see this prison--exclusively for women,--not for the worst criminals of the sex,--but for women convicted of minor offenses,--such as drunken[n]ess, and similar transgressions.

In the last fifteen years, the institution has been wonderfully successful in its work of preserving women, who may have just turned into a downward course, from sinking any lower; and giving them a chance to rise to something higher and better. The place is home-like, and the inmates take an interest in the work done there;--such word as wash-

[230]

ing for the city of Boston, making butter, raising flowers, sewing, etc. The superintendent has found great benefit in inducing the women to care for animals,--sheep, cows, etc.,--and in raising very fine chickens.

Being a prison, of course, the inmates are not anxious to stay in the place; but sometimes they show that it is the best habitation for them. She told us of one woman who, at a sort of evening entertainment, recited poetry so very well, that she asked, the next day;--why such a woman should be in such a place at all? The superintendent took her to the woman’s room; and showed her that, in a terrible fit of temper, this poetical elocutionist had broken up all the furniture, and torn up everything capable of being torn there. A little solitary confinement was prescribed to restore her equanimity. But generally the women were tractable and well-behaved; and treated the superintendent with respect and affection.

The announcement was then made that the members of the Woman’s Literary Club were invited to attend the Exhibition of Pictures given by the Baltimore Water Color Club.

Announcement was made of the Queen Luise Festival, to be held in December.[^12th]

[^12th]: This may be the first mention of what became one of the WLCB's most cherished traditions, the Twelfth Night dinner and salon. Duchess Louise (or Luise, in German) August Wilhelmine Amale of Mecklenburg-Strelitz (1776-1810) was the much-loved queen of Prussia between 1797-1810 and became a popular symbol of Prussian (and later German) nationalism in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. She married King Frederick William III on Dec. 24, 1793, and during her short life, bore nine children and became a powerful political figure during the Napoleonic wars. Four years after her death, King Frederick founded the Order of Louise, which championed conservative feminine virtues and figured what later would become idealized womanhood in Nazi Germany.

It was announced that this Meeting was under the direction of the Committee on Essays and Reviews.

The first Article of the programme was by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, and was an “Essay on Emerson.”

She spoke of Emerson as having been borne in the high pure air belonging to Boston, and its vicinity; and of his life with kindred spirits who breathed the same fine atmosphere.

[231]

She went on to speak of Emerson as a poet, philosopher and essayist. She referred to those of his readers, who consider it a grave mistake to call him a poet;--while acknowledging his claims as a philosopher. But she thought that by his own definition, and by that of many another high authority, he proved himself both poet, and philosopher. That he lived in that spirit of faith and aspiration, which forbids co-writing of the muses; but needs only the opening of the soul for the inspiration to flow into it. As Sir Philip Sidney said: ["]Look in thine heart; and write!”

Of his essays, Mrs. Graham said, you must read them for yourself;--and find them strong, fine and comparable. That a Nemesis presides over all intellectual work;--the question is: How much water will it draw? Will it be swept out to sea? or will it sail steadily into port? That his essays were like mosaics, written at odd times, on scraps of paper which he used to hunt up and weave together. He never really wrote to order; his theory of inspiration forbade it.

She spoke of “the friends that God gave him”;--of Margaret Fuller, of Carlyle, of Hawthorne, of Thoreau, of Alcott and others.

Then of his assertion that true civilization is the influence of good women; men being what their mothers make them;--a law as imperative as Newton’s laws in Physics.

That he was one so fully in touch with reality, that another generation will read him as we read him. To him even death was beautiful;--believing that God is one, that Jesus never speaks _patois,_ and that when he said: "The kingdom of heaven is within you,"

[232]

he would have us forego all low curiosity, and work and live. As for immortality,--the question and answer is one. "God shines over all; all goes to teach us faith."

<POETRY>
"There is no great, and no small
For the Soul that maketh all."</POETRY>

Emerson sympathized with the great movements of history; yet read history, not passively, but actively.

We were told that Concord may have held a curious throng; but that it was like a great light house, when Emerson and his dearest friends and soul-kindred lived there;--refusing to turn aside for low rewards, rendering homage, not to the times,--but to the eternities.

They thought when a man meets his mate, society begins,--when you answer the meaning, and not the words.

She went on to speak of the divine law of gravitation; by which the pure in heart attract whatsoever is pure in others to themselves;--the true thought transference and affinity.

It seemed to be growing late; and Mrs. Graham concluded to omit the rest of her Article, in order to give full time for the next reading.

This one was of an Essay by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, on "Washington Irving, and Our Essayists,--English and American."

Mrs. Lord spoke of Essays and Essayists, in general;--of the writers of the Spectator,--the Tattler,--the Rambler,--of the Essays of Elia, our dear Charles Lamb.[^essayists]

[^essayists]: Lord refers to several renowned British essayists: Joseph Addison (the _Spectator_); Richard Steele (the _Spectator_ and the _Tatler_); Samuel Johnson (the _Rambler_); and Charles Lamb (_Essays of Elia_).

Our essayists, she said, are very near the border land of poetry and romance. That some essayists [are] poets; but fewer poets are essayists.

That if, among American essayists, we can give [Ralph Waldo] Emerson the first place, we can give Washington Irving the second; and, of we can rank Emerson

[233]

with [Thomas] Carlyle, we can rank Irving with [Joseph] Addison and Charles Lamb.

Irving's life in England gave him rare opportunities for culture. His descriptions of Abbotsford, and of Sir Walter Scott himself, of Byron's life, of Newstead Abbey and of the home of the Annesleys, are written with rare power. Through Irving's eyes we see the romance of old England, and feel the pride of the child in the Fatherland. We comprehend the old feudal relations, which can never exist in our own hand.

His Spanish descriptions,--with fascinating personal adventures, his tales of the Alhambra, his Moorish romances, as no less charming.

Irving's good fortune, in his opportunities for the use of his picturesque powers, followed him in his native land also. Even the stories of Diedrick Knickerbocker, give us a new respect for our own history. He led the way for Hawthorne, and his friends, for Bret Harte, for Thomas Nelson Page, and our own Mrs. Tiernan,--and for many others.

Irving's Life of Washington has the same charm. He can paint Colonial times; the Indian wars; the Revolution, and the Statesmanship that followed it; till we feel almost inclined to place the historian before the essayists.

But, continued Mrs. Lord, he has enriched our American literature in various departments; he has been one of our first educators,--and one of the world's educators also.

The announcement was made of the programme for the next Meeting; including a paper by Miss [Maria H.] Middleton,

[234]

and a Story by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock. Also, an Explanation by the Librarian, of the affairs of the library of the Club.

Mrs. Graham, then, finding the time comparatively early, consented to finish the reading of her "Essay on Emerson."

She read from the "Threnody," the poem on the death of his son, a few lines, which seems to contain the highest and most beautiful expression of Emerson's poetic power, human love, and religious faith, he has perhaps ever given us.[^Threnody]

[^Threnody]: The last lines of the poem read: "Waters with tears of ancient sorrow / Apples of Eden ripe to-morrow; / House and tenant go to ground, / Lost in God, in Godhead found."

Mrs. Graham then went on to speak of his so-called Pantheism;--of his belief in the hidden relation between man and all other things;--in the priestly function of man in Nature,--being himself part and parcel with God.

She spoke of another view of Emerson's life; how he, the product of seven generations of ministerial blood, left the ministry of the Unitarian faith, because he could not conscientiously do the duties required by it, but--

<POETRY>
"Himself from God he could not free."</POETRY>

and--"wrought in sad sincerity."[^Problem]

[^Problem]: Here and below, Graham quotes from Emerson's poem "The Problem" (1839).

Perhaps, after listening to a very highly appreciative account of him, even those of us who have differed from him in many things may believe that--

<POETRY>"He builded better than he knew"--</POETRY>

both for this world, and the next one.

The Meeting then adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)