---
title: 1892-12-06 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-12-06-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[ii]

## Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore.
### Record of Meetings. Volume II
### 1892-1893

## December 6th 1892 to December 19th 1893[^LCnote1]

[^LCnote1]: Crane's note: The first volume contained the records of General Meetings and Meetings of the Board of Management also. It has now been thought better to separate them; and this volume is to contain only the Minutes of General Meetings.


[1]

## 67th General Meeting. [Dec. 6, 1892][^LCnote2]

[^LCnote2]: Crane's note: The meeting of Nov. 29th was not a Salon. Record in the other book. 

The 67th general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, December 6th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

It was under the direction of the Committee on Modern Poetry,--of which Miss Lizette Woodworth Reese is Chairman.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, the first Vice President presided at this meeting.

The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the previous meeting on November 29th.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin then spoke of the proposed representation of the works of the female authors of Maryland at the Columbian Exposition in Chicago. The Committee having charge of Woman's Work for the State of Maryland, at this Exposition, wish to have two copies of every published book written by a native or resident Maryland woman, to be sent to Chicago; as a gift and a loan, that is: one copy to be retained and placed in the Woman's Memorial Building at Chicago;[^1893] the other, to be returned to Baltimore. If two copies can not be procured of any one book, the Committee will be glad even to have one. A slip of paper should be pasted inside the binding, letting whether the book is given or loaned. It is hoped that living authors will give their works to this collection; and, with regard to those who have died, it is hoped that

[^1893]: See minutes from Nov. 29, 1892 meeting for more on the WLCB's participation in the World Columbian Exposition. 

[2]

their executors and friends will make the effort to contribute their works also.

Mrs. Colvin proposed to read to us the list of Maryland female authors prepared by Dr. John Morris; which was, she said, very short, and, evidently, not a full one.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham said that some other names might, she thought, be obtained from the collection of the old Mercantile Library Association; or from Mr. Donaldson, the former librarian of that Association.

The list was then read,--containing twenty one names.

Mrs. Colvin said she hoped to read to us a new and fuller list next Tuesday.

Miss [Margaret Sutton] Briscoe asked permission to say a few words on the same subject as that of the paper she gave us a few weeks ago:--The Free Breakfast Association. She told us that the men having charge of that work feel themselves somewhat distressed by the need of woman's work as an auxiliary power to continue the efforts made by them. The clothing sent to them has not been properly distributed. She spoke of the meeting to consider this subject to be held at Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early's house on Monday next, at three o'clock. Miss Briscoe also invited any of us who might wish to see something of the work done by The Free Breakfast Association, to meet her next Tuesday morning, at the "Berkeley," a little before nine o'clock, and to go with to the early

[3]

service at the old Associate Reformed Church.[^Berkley] She spoke of the recent results of this word,--of one young man who brought two more tramps to the boarding house, and guaranteed their board, until they could get something to do;--he himself having been lately picked up out of the gutter, and now striving to pick up others also.

[^Berkley]: The Berkly Flats apartment building was located at 104 W. Eager St., according to the 1892 Baltimore city directory. The elaborately Romanesque Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, designed by Charles E. Cassell, was constructed in 1889 at the corner of Maryland and Preston Avenues, a few blocks north of the Berkley. It is now the Greek Orthodox Cathedral of the Annunciation.

The first Article of our Programme was of two Poems, written by our President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, and read by Mrs. Graham. They were: "Comradeship," and "Love's Apotheosis." The first took us with wing-like feet into the leafy woods, up the mountain side, under the heavenly blue, among ferns and wild roses and dove-eyed birds; where the grace and beauty all around is half murmur, half perfume;--where we might almost surprise the secret that the woods and the woodland creatures hold.

The second poem, "Love's Apotheosis," told us that "Love is not blind, but seeth far, and high above the clear radiance of the star;--that Love which has fadeless youth; which is never born of littleness, nor bitterness, nor fickleness;--that Love which abideth true.

The next Article of the programme was of two Poems by Miss Grace Denio Litchfield, read by Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman. The first was: "A Love Song," and the second called: "To my Love."[^love]

[^love]: Neither of these poems appears in _Mimosa Leaves_ (1895). 

[poetry]
["]The lover sings of her who came into his life one golden day, when he knew that she

[4]

was there only by fragrance and by glory everywhere."
[/poetry]

Then the song was of the love too vast for speech, like the prayers that must remain unspoken--like the god of the heavens under the touch of God's finger, ere earth ceases to be.

The third Article on our programme was an Essay by Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman, on: ["]James Russell Lowell, as a Poet."  She spoke of Lowell's life and, of his works. She said that he came of the best Puritan stock, descended from the men who came to this country in times of "storm and stress."  That his mother, whose name was Spence, was descended from Sir Patrick Spens, of the "grand old" Scotch "ballad."  She was a fine linguist, and her son inherited her taste for poetry: having lisped ballads at her knee. He learned a beautiful Mythology, not from dusty books, but as given by Nature herself to her true lover. Mrs. Haman quoted from Lowell's poem "To the Dandelion," what he says of the robin's song,--

[poetry]
--"and I, secure in childish piety
Listened as if I heard an angel sing
With news from heaven--"

"Fresh every day to my untainted ears,
When birds and flowers and I were happy peers." 
[/poetry]

She said he made friends often of those older than himself;--as [Ralph Waldo] Emerson, [Nathaniel] Hawthorne, [William Emery] Channing, and others. He loved his country home; his nature was serious and religious, yet full of humor and satire. He studied social questions, with full consciousness of the gravest

[5]

mysteries of life and death;--and in philanthropy and in politics he ranked himself with what was--from his point of view--liberty and progress.

He wrote early in life, publishing his first book at the age of twenty two; and another one, of much greater merit, three years later, in 1844. We were given some lovely lines from his early poems of sentiment;--and then were reminded of his Biglow Papers [1848], in which the dialect, the wit, and humor seemed almost entirely new to literature. Then of the favorable criticism these papers met with from English, as well as from American critics.

Mrs. Haman then took up the Fable for the Critics,--with its descriptions of American authors; as of Washington Irving, to whom he gives credit for "writing of Spain, with something like the charm of Cervantes;" of being "England's gentle Addison, without the chill"; and of being--

[poetry]
"--not wholly deserving
The name of English, or Yankee,--but just Irving."
[/poetry]

Then of himself--Lowell--, as "coming on with a whole pack of ism on his back".--and as having "never learned the distinction between saying and preaching."

Mrs. Haman read extracts from the "Vision of Sir Launfal["] and from other poems of Lowell; but many of our favorites had to be left out in her notices of his works. But I think we could feel the presence of "The poet," as Milton says; "soaring in the high reason of his fancies, with

[6]

his garland and singing robes about him."

The fourth article on the programme was a poem by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter, called an "Ode to Love," and read by Miss [Mary F.] Grace. It was prefaced, by the very complementary opinion of Mr. [Henry Mills] Alden, the critical writer for the "Harpers," who said that this poem recalled the charm of the Elizabethan poets.[^alden]

[^alden]: This poem was not included in Easter's single published volume, _Clytie and Other Poems_ (1891); Alden's comment has not been located.

The poem told of Love's bringing into the sky a tint it never had before;--that all accents since lips had language belong to Love. He can do all things, to all others impossible,--can see with blind eyes, and conquer Death.

The next Article was a poem by Miss Virginia [Virginia Woodward] Cloud; read by Mrs. Dammann. It was called "A Stradivarius."[^Strad]  It asks this old music-maker, coming from mysterious gloom;--what secrets it holds trembling on its strings?--what voice of bird?--or light of star?--or smile of lovely face?--or strange, pent up music of all silence? Let it speak, for the Creator's touch has given it a soul-voice for its own.

[^Strad]: "A Stradivarius" was published in the August 1893 issue of _Cosmopolitan_ magazine, p. 456.

The last Article was by Miss Reese, on "Some Old English Love-Songs." She gave us a little preface about those people who bewail the loss of the glad poets of Greece; and do not see that we can gain gladness nearer than from Greece;--from poets, not very great perhaps, but who still had the instinct to aim at a star instead of at a tree. She said that the world loves a lover; and the shepherds and shepherdesses, who laugh and sing,--and weep too sometimes,--and invite the whole world to join them.

[7]

She spoke of some minor English poets of the time when there were more of these shepherds than now. She told us of [Edmund] Waller, with his "inconstant Celia," and his "lovely Rose";[^Carew] of Thomas Heywood, with his notes from the lark;--of [Richard] Lovelace, with his well-known lines "To Lucasta[, Going to the Wars]" and his--

[poetry]
"Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage;--"
[/poetry]

--of George Wither, Round-head as well as poet, with his

[poetry]
"--Shall I, wasting in despair,
Die, because a woman's fair?"
[/poetry]

--of Sir Philip Sidney, true hero as well as poet;--of Dr. [John] Donne and Bishop [John] King;--of Sir John Suckling,--and Herrick, and others.

[^Carew]: Either Reese or Crane misattributes to Edmund Waller the love poems of his contemporary, Thomas Carew, to his hypothetical mistress Celia. Reese correctly attributes "Go, Lovely Rose" to Waller, and also refers to Heywood's "Matin Song"; Lovelace's "To Althea, from Prison"; and Wither's "Shall I, wasting in despair." 

Miss Reese spoke of the abounding youth of very many of these poets, and of their glad charm,--so great that we refuse to believe them reprobates--when we are told they were so. We enjoyed hearing such poems, that told us to "gather rosebuds while we may,"--without thinking of the thorns we may gather, with them.

The programme having been given, it was announced that Miss Mary Wilcox Brown had been appointed Assistant Librarian of the Club.

The meeting then adjourned.

Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)