---
title: 1892-11-01 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-11-01-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[206]

## 62nd General Meeting. [Nov. 1, 1892]

The 62nd General Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, November 1st, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

Several visitors were present; among others, Miss Emily Mason and Miss [Katherine Mason Rust] Rowland.

The President, being, to our great regret, unable to be present, her place was filled by the First Vice President, who called the meeting to order; and presided.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the two last preceeding Meetings on October 18th and 25th.

The first Article on our programme was given by Mrs. Gaston Manly, and was a "Review of Lamborn's

[207]

Mexican Painting and Painters."

She said we can have only an outline of the treasures of Mexican Art; but that even this may be acceptable,--at least, to those who are not specially art--students. That it has been said that the short Story is a demand of the Pullman-car period. But the short Story has come to stay,--indeed, the short method in everything.

She told us of Dr. Lamborn's having devoted seven months in the year 1883 to travelling in Mexico; while pursuing the study of Mexican Art. Also of the collection of eighty paintings, as well as of other artistic productions, which has had brought away with him, and which are now in Philadelphia.[^Lamborn]

[^Lamborn]: Robert H. Lamborn was the author of _Mexican Painting and Painters,_ an early English-language work on the subject. He collected dozens of Mexican artworks in the early 1880s and donated his collection to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1888.  See Diana Roberts, [The Robert H. Lamborn Collection in the Philadelphia Museum of Art](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/236889982_The_Robert_H_lamborn_Collection_in_the_Philadelphia_Museum_of_Art) (2013).

Mrs. Manly went on to speak of Mexican Art in general; of the early and original Art developments, in painting, feather-work, etc. of the Aztec Indians; to which Cortez and his followers and successors have borne witness; and of the wealth of Art in the Colonial period--native and imported.

She spoke of the Art School, established eleven years after the conquest; and told us that the publication of the first book in America was in Mexico. Also, that, after three long centuries of Spanish rule and misrule, came the Revolutionary period, a time of poverty and disorder, when many valuable paintings were sent to Europe; and are there still.

Many of Dr. Lamborn's collection had been found in strange places; but many such works had been preserved by the clergy, and had adorned sacristies and convent reflectories. An original Murillo was found in a riding school; and a painting of the "Entombment,"

[208]

of rare value, in a village refectory.

Our Reviewer went on to tell us of the "Virgin of Guadalupe," painted in 1531. It was the copy of what was said to have been a miraculous appearance on the mantle of a priest, afterwards transferred to a church. A native artist was employed to paint a copy of it for the Pope. Mrs. Manly showed us a print of this beautiful painting, kindly furnished by Dr. Lamborn.

She told us some of the poetical legends of Santa Rosa of Peru,[^Rose] the first American canonized saint, who sang responsive hymns of praise with the birds, and seemed to talk with the flowers.

[^Rose]: Rose of Lima, born Isabel Flores de Oliva (1586-1617), was the first person born in the Americas to be canonized by the Catholic Church, in 1671.
 
She also told us of the remarkable Mexican woman--artist and poet--Doña Juana Iñez de la Cruz, who died in 1699.[^SorJuana]

[^SorJuana]: Sor Juana Iñez de la Cruz (1648-1695) belonged to the Hieronymite order and was a prominent writer, philosopher, composer, and poet during the Spanish Golden Age of literature.
 
She reminded us that the Art of a nation has a profound significance for us, when we study its history. Perhaps it may have the same [significance] when we try to study its destiny also.

The next Article on our programme was a Review by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller of the late German novel, "Ground Arms,"--"Die Waffen Nieder"--, of which a German critic is reported to have said: It is not a book, it is an event."--[^Ground]

[^Ground]: _Ground Arms!: The Story of a Life,_ by Bertha von Suttner (1843-1914) was published in 1892 in an English-language translation by Alice Asbury Abbott. Von Suttner was the first woman to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, in 1905. Miller quotes from Asbury's preface in her summarized remarks.

Mrs. Miller told us that this novel is said to have produced as great a sensation in Germany as "Uncle Tom's Cabin" once did in America. The Author--Baroness Von Suttner, a noble Austrian woman,--had been known before this publication as the writer of two tender and witty society novels. But here she treats of the realities of war: making them tremendously

[209]

real. With steady purpose her heroine devotes her life to the stirring question of a future of stable peace and the abolition of standing armies. At the International Peace Congress in Rome, the brave Austrian lady stood on the rostrum, like Corinna,[^Corinna] to advance her views.

[^Corinna]: One of the few known female poets from the ancient Greek era, Corinna lived and worked somewhere between the fifth century to the late third century BC.

We were reminded that our histories are filled with long lists of battles, and acts of individual heroism, in war; that our novels and poems--even the books for boys and girls--are still tending to the development of a war loving race. But surely, we can "mentally shake hands" with the Baroness Von Suttner, and feel in full sympathy with the poet we were commemorating two weeks ago today when he calls on the Christmas bells to--

<POETRY>
"Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace!"
</POETRY>

Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese then spoke to us on "Open Air Novels." She said it was often a relief to the weariness of those of us who spend much of our time in doors, to read with full enjoyment the books that take us into the open air, and tell us of adventures by sea and land.

She read us extracts from a Story of the reign of Edward III, about the free, rude life of that time, and introducing a poem on "The Bow,"--the old English bow, the weapon of hunters and foresters.

She also read extracts from the Story of "The Blue Pavillions," and from that of "The White Company".

We enjoyed her reading, from books, which,

[210]

as she said, "could be read with a clear conscience, and which we sometimes find bracing like sea-breezes."

Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, chairman of the Committee on "Current Criticism," next reviewed, with great condensation and vivacity, the books of the last summer,--new and reprinted ones.

Among others she spoke of the book of Claudio (Junet?) on "Socialism"; in which he maintains that inequalities of circumstances and fortunes is a condition of humanity, necessary to civilization, giving opportunities to emulation and enthusiasm,--to striving to rise,--to the aspirations of genius,--and to the elevation of the whole race.

Mrs. Dammann also spoke of Miss [Katharine Mason Rust] Rowland's "Life of George Mason of Virginia," and read very favorable criticisms of it from the "Nation" and the "Atlantic Monthly."[^Rowland]

[^Rowland]: Rowland, a member of the WLCB at several points during her life, was a Southern apologist and the great-great-grandniece of George Mason, the author of the Virginia Declaration of Rights. She was the editor and author of several other books, including Charles L. C. Minor's _The Real Lincoln_ (1901). A somewhat whitewashed profile is available on the [Virginia Changemakers](https://edu.lva.virginia.gov/changemakers/items/show/220) website. Dammann was a member and officer in the Baltimore chapter of the Maryland Daughters of the Confederacy.

She also reviewed the "Conversations and Correspondence with Thomas Carlyle," by Sir Charles Duffy; and compared it with Nicoll's and with Froude's accounts of the life of the sad, bitter, wonderful Thomas Carlyle.

She spoke of "Edinboro Life," by the Baroness Nairne, the writer of "The Land of the Seal," and of a number of other poems, of which she said eight or ten were of superior worth,--and proved her opinion, by reading several of them to us.

She spoke of "Aunt Anne," by Mrs. W.K. Clifford, a novel in which a lady of sixty years gets married; but the apparently preposterous situation is relieved--partially--by the author's

[211]

making us understand why she did it.

She spoke of the "Peter Ibbetson" of Du Maurier, as interesting and poetical, but with a minor note of false sentiment put in place of religious faith.

She thought there was a sort of fascination in his account of "dreaming true!," and meeting the one he loved best, who had the power of "dreaming true" also, and whom he could meet in no other way. That one might be tempted to try his process for "dreaming true"--sometimes. But to live for it, to spend one's time in dreaming, and hoping for dreams seems possible only to the inmate of a criminal lunatic asylum,--which poor, pleasing Ibbetson was.

Mrs. Dammann spoke with great interest of Mrs. Piozzi's "Observations on her Journey in Italy" near the close of the last century. Also, of Dr. Johnson's "Correspondence" with Mrs. Thrale, when she was about to be married, for the second time,--to Mr. Piozzi. His opposition is painful, and, sometimes, pathetic. He speaks of her having brightened his "life of radical wretchedness"; and writes about his prayers,--one of which he turned into Latin verse; being ill, and wishing to test his mental powers. The contrast was shown between this man of large body and large heart and ponderous ceremoniousness, and the graceful woman of chatty literary power and love of repartee.

Mrs. Dammann also reviewed "An Englishman in Paris," and quoted very entertaining anecdotes of Dumas, Véron, and King Louis Phillippe.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton then read some graceful verses sent with dried rose leaves to the Club, which we all appreciated. The Meeting then adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)