---
title: 1892-10-04 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-10-04-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[175]

## 18th Salon, October 4th, 1892.

The eighteenth Salon of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, being the first meeting of the third year, was held on Tuesday afternoon, October 4th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre St.

The president, after calling the meeting to order, announced that she wished to draw the attention of the Club to some matters of business before beginning the exercises on the programme. It was necessary to give notice of some propositions to be voted upon at the next meeting of the Club; and we had now a full meeting, for the purpose of giving such notification.

She then spoke of the notices sent to each member with regard to the book representing the work of our Club, to be sent to the Columbian Exposition at Chicago. Possibly some members had not received the notice. She said the proposed work was not to draw anything from the Club treasury,--which will, perhaps, have to meet some unusual demands this year,--and was not, by any means, an assessment upon the members. After reading from the notice sent out, she explained that the book is to be sold only by subscription,--the members may have friends who would like to subscribe to it,--that not less than an average number of five (5) copies to each member is required to bring it out creditably--"an édition de luxe"--; and that is to pay the simple cost, with no advertising or publisher's expenses. Whether the price will be two dollars ($2.00) or less will depend on the number of subscriptions taken.[^dollars] Of

[176]

course, some members can not or ought not to take it at all. There had been one hundred seventy two (172) subscriptions,--fifty six (56) members having responded for an average of three (3) copies a piece. Responses have also been received from members who have been asked to send their literary and artistic contributions to the committee for publication in the proposed book. The artists belonging to the Club will probably illustrate it thus adding to its beauty and value. The publishers' estimates have been obtained, and the committee can do no more at present. Responses can be made to the president,--or to any officer of the Club.

[^dollars]: Two dollars in 1892 would be worth a little over $60 in 2022 dollars.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham rose to say that Mrs. William Reed, who has charge of the Maryland department of Woman's Work at the Chicago Exposition, asks for collections of the works of Maryland female authors,--and considers the Woman's Literary Club the place to come to make this request. She wishes a response as soon as possible, in order to know how much space to ask for. Other states are taking up the space now. Mrs. Graham said that Mrs. Reed had spoken of the apathy and want of responsiveness shown by the women of Maryland with regard to the women writers of their own state. The President responded to Mrs. Graham's statement; but it was concluded that nothing definite could be done at this meeting.

The President said that she wished to give

[177]

notice of two proposed Amendments to our Constitution,--very important, and calculate to further the interests of the Club,--to be mentioned now for consideration and discussion, and to be voted on at our next meeting. She quoted Article 7th, Section 1st of our Constitution: "On Amendments." She told us the story of that ancient Greek colony in which the laws were venerated and implicitly obeyed; but where any citizen could propose an amendment, and, if he could could convince his fellow citizens of its worthiness, have it adopted. But, in presenting his amendment, the proposer was obliged to wear a singular costume, one feature of which was--a coil of rope around the neck. If the amendment was approved, it was to the honor of the proposer;--but, if he failed to have his amendment adopted, he was immediately--mercifully prevented from ever failing again. But our laws are not so stringent as those of Zaleucas 25 hundred years ago;[^Zaleucus] and we are not so fatally obedient to them as he is reported to have been.

[^Zaleucus]: Zaleucus (7th century BC) was a follower of Pythagoras and author of the Locrian Code of law. His law on amendments was related by Edward Gibbon in Chapter 44 of _The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire_ (1776-1789).

The first proposed amendment was the one suggested by the newly elected Secretary last spring, and postponed to the present time; with regard to the appointment of a corresponding Secretary, to do part of the work faithfully and successfully done by Miss [Eliza] Ridgely for the last two years. We were reminded that she had shown herself willing and anxious to do all that belonged to the office, and the Club was congratulated on having had from its beginning

[178]

such a secretary. But some things which have been done by the President, and some which have been necessarily left out, seem now to belong to the Secretary's work. Miss [Lydia] Crane, the former secretary of the "Eight o'clock Club,"[^eight] was unable to attempt to do the work done by Miss Ridgely; and the appointment of a corresponding secretary, who could assist the President, and undertake the large and growing correspondence of the Club, seemed to be necessary now.

[^eight]: The Dec. 6, 1902 issue of _Charities: A Weekly Review of Local and General Philanthropy_, described the Eight O'Clock Club as "a Baltimore organization of charity workers" (543) and appeared to include both men and women.

We were reminded that there is no clause in our Constitution providing for the filling of vacancies in the Board of Management for an unexpired term, and it is proposed that the President of the Club shall be given a power like that belonging to the Governor of our own state, and very generally conferred upon the Executive officers of societies resembling our own. A vacancy might frequently be filled by a special election, but sometimes this is impossible, especially if it should occur in the summer time, when the members are scattered in different directions. A vacancy in the office of president could be filled by the vice president, but one in that of secretary, or, still more, in that of treasurer, would be of grave consequence to the business or financial welfare of the Club. It is not to be supposed that the Club would elect to the office of president one in whom it had not such full confidence as to give her the power to fill a vacancy for an unexpired portion of the Club year.

[179]

The two suggested amendments will be proposed and voted upon at a subsequent meeting.

The President then read a letter from Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson, the very efficient Treasurer of the Club, resigning her office, giving us her reason that she was about to begin a regular collegiate course of study, and had gone to enter Bryn Mawr College. A further letter to Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull was read, sending vouchers and letters from her bankers to the President and first Vice President. The President said that this vacancy might now be regularly filled, but that the whole question of Miss Thompson's successor could be deferred until the meeting of next Tuesday.

Mrs. Turnbull then announced that the first article of the programme related to a subject about which we shall certainly hear much during the coming year. It was a reading by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord from her "Drama of Christopher Columbus",--the Man of Destiny." She read parts of the 3rd and 5th Acts of her Drama.[^Vision] First, showing Columbus before the Junta at Grenada, pleading for the means and the authority to carry out his great ideas, and plans "for the glory of the nation and the Church."  Also, a love scene between Columbus and Beatrice Enriquez,--in a Moorish mosque, turned Christian Church,--in the midst of which the Queen sends to demand his presence immediately; and the conflict is depicted between love and ambition. Then Columbus is shown before Ferdinand and Isabella, defending the theory of the spherical shape

[^Vision]: Lord published her play under the title _A Vision's Quest_ in 1899 with  Cushing & Company, Baltimore. [Full-text available online at Archive.org](https://archive.org/details/visionsquest00lord).

[180]

of the earth; quoting Pliny Esdras, and King David's Psalms--followed by lively discussions. Then Columbus on the voyage, with his mutinous and rebellious crew and followers,--and his own marvelous hope and courage. Then the vindication of the great discovery, and the scene closing with the "Gloria in Excelsis." Mrs. Lord could, of course, only read extracts from her drama. We can hardly hear too much of him, to whom, as he said, were given "the keys of those gates of the ocean which were fast closed with mighty chains."

Mrs. Turnbull announced that the second article of the programme was; "A Winter in Germany," by Mrs. Fabian Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin];--a sketch on a subject on which we would be glad to hear a long essay. It was chiefly on the educational advantages given by the German Universities to women students; though we were told that most of the German Universities admit women not as members, but as guests. Also, that some women, finding themselves unable to gain the privileges they wished in Germany, went to the University of Zurich, whose provisions for them were not of the limited sort. Still there are great advantages for women in some of the German Universities from lectures etc.; in Leipzig and Göttingen for instance, and they are created with courtesy and respect;--but degrees are not conferred upon them. There is, we were told, a decided change of opinion on this subject, within the last few years. It is argued that the

[181]

higher education will open more avenues of occupation for German women. Professors often live in luxury; and, dying, leave their daughters poor enough to "take in sewing," and to overcrowd the few paths of money making open to women in the Fatherland. It is argued that this class of distressed gentlewomen will be especially benefitted by unlimited educational privileges.

Mrs. Franklin also spoke of the changes she saw in her trip abroad last year from the Europe of ten years ago. She was struck particularly by the ubiquitous advertising indulged in, even to a greater extent than in America. It was almost impossible to see the names of the railway stations; and, even at Oxford, the collegiate walls were plastered over with announcements of the virtues of soaps, and other useful or ornamental materials;--even those time-honored walls being not "above the reach of sacreligious [sic] hands."

The next article of the programme consisted of two published poems by Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett. The first was called. "Eventide,"--setting of that true-restful hour when, if ever, Nature and the soul of man should be at peace. The second was; "To a Poet",--charging him to "keep nothing hid" of his gift, but to approve himself "the true interpreter to God."[^Benet]

[^Benet]: Works of S. Elgar Benet (Sarah H. Bennett) included fiction as well as poetry. "[Eventide](https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=mdp.39015020922087&view=1up&seq=117&skin=2021&q1=benet)" was published in _Cosmopolitan_ magazine in November 1890. 

Mrs. Turnbul[l] called our attention to the name on the programme, and said that when we had seen the poems of "S. Elgar Benet" in the magazines, we--probably--not all of us, had

[182]

known that they were written by our Miss Bennett,--our fellow-member of our Woman's Literary Club.

Miss [Maria H.] Middleton then called our attention to the approaching lectures of the Reverend Mr. Kinkus, on the "Rise of the Drama".

Refreshments were served, and the meeting ended with pleasant social conversation.

[Minutes from Board of Managers meeting of Oct. 11, 1892, pp 182-184, moved to Board of Managers 1892-1893 document.]

[184]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)