---
title: 1892-11-08 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-11-08-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 63rd General Meeting. [Nov. 8, 1892]

The 63rd General Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon November 8th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President called the Meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the Meeting on November 1st.

The President said that there were some announcements to be made.

Miss [Eliza] Ridgely spoke of the Amendment to the Constitution proposed by herself at a former Meeting, defining the duties of the two Secretaries of the Club;--and proposed to add to it--that the Recording Secretary should sign the written contracts of the Club.

The President said that this, of course, was not really a change in the Constitution. Miss Ridgely's motion was seconded by Miss [Margaret Sutton] Briscoe; and was agreed to without opposition.

The President requested the Recording Secretary to have the Amendments lately added to the Constitution written out in proper form from her Minutes.

The President also announced that a new Honorary Member of the Club had been appointed by the Board of Management;--Mrs. Margaret S. Preston,--who had lately come to live in Baltimore. A letter was read from Mrs. Preston to our fellow member Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter.[^Preston]

[^Preston]: Margaret Junkin Preston (1820-1897) was informally known as the "Poet Laureate of the Confederacy" and was the author of several books of poetry, fiction, and prose.

The President also announced that the vacancy in the office of Treasurer of the Club, had been filled by the appointment, by the Board of Management, of Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock,--who had accepted the position. She took great pleasure in presenting the new Treasurer to the Club.

[215]

As we were all aware, the dues of the Club were payable on the first Tuesday in October; but, as there had been so far this season, no Treasurer to receive them, the bills had not been sent out,--and the Treasury had suffered in consequence. She would remind the members, not as the Treasurer's suggestion, but as her own, that those of the ladies who could make it convenient to pay their dues on the present occasion, would now have an officer who could receive them.

Our President then spoke of our approaching change of quarters, in company with the Academy of Sciences, and of the action now being taken by our Committee, to furnish and decorate the room the Academy have set apart for us in their new building. We are to have the use of two rooms, and a separate entrance from the street; with no rental except the almost nominal dues of honorary members of the Academy;--the officials of which institution wish the building to be occupied only by their society and our own. Dr. Uhler has said that "Science and Literature belong together," and he and his fellow members have spoken of our association with them as an honor to them, and with the hope that it may always continue.

We are glad to have the intellectual position of women so gracefully acknowledged by this action of so old an Academy to so young a society as our own; which latter had, three years ago, no existence.

Individual expressions of gratitude to Mr. and Mrs. Pratt for our part of the benefit received from their generous gift to the Academy have been made, and pleasantly received.

The announcement was made that the Meeting

[216]

of next Tuesday would be under the direction of the Committee on Fiction. Also, that Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller had resigned the Chairmanship of this Committee; and that the President had been requested to accept it,--and had consented to do so. The programme for next Tuesday was also announced.

Announcement was made of the Literary Lectures of Miss Claudia Stuart.

The President then introduced the first Article of the programme: "Women as Guardians of the Public Health," by Dr. Nellie V. Mark. This Article was deferred from the Meeting of October 11th; and she said Dr. Mark had, with some inconvenience to herself, consented to give it to us this evening.

Dr. Mark told us that the saying "wealth is health" is as true of nations as of individuals. She spoke of women having been in all ages recognized as the attendants of the sick and the feeble; also, of the powers ascribed to them of cleverness and experience, and--sometimes--of witchcraft. In the feudal times the care of the wounded and dying was given to priests and women. But that for ages women were kept to what was called their proper sphere; and the individual use of individual gifts for the preservation of human life was denied to a very large portion of the human race.

But that, forty years ago a few individuals met and threw a stone into the pool of public opinion,--a big stone, and thrown with immense force,--destined to ruffle the waters in ever increasing circles; and to revolutionize much ignorance and superstition.

Dr. Mark thought that women doctors had come to stay.

[217]

She quoted Herbert Spencer that "health is a duty--a physical morality."  The effects of injuries are as great as those of crimes; and each one of us maybe unconsciously accountable for physical sins. Long ago it was said that the best way to begin a reformation is, to reform number one; there is then one more reformed person in the world.

Women, she said are responsible for the care of the young; for giving them proper food and dress and exercise; that they may grow up with--

<POETRY>
"The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength and skill";
</POETRY>

--that Wordsworth tells us of.

She thought the high death rate among children could be easily traced to bad food and clothing; and to ignorance of Nature's laws on the part of parents. She told of the woman who, hearing that all of us changed completely every seven years, said she hoped the seven years would soon be up, for any change in her husband would be a change for the better.

Dr. Mark also spoke of our being made what we are by heredity and environment; and reminded us of the assertion that "every man is a quotation from his ancestors";--and that individual traits can be traced back for centuries. But that much can be done by environment and direction. She spoke of a boy belonging to a family, all of whose male members down to himself had been victims of alcoholism; but whose mother so kept him from temptation that up to the age of thirty, he did not show the family trait. After thirty he fell into temptation, and went the way of the rest of the family. She thought that if his mother had only understood, better than she did,

[218]

physical laws, and physical training, he might have escaped altogether the shipwreck that came to him.

She thought that food should be nourishing, but not stimulating, and that in our home life the laws of hygiene and sanitary science should prevail. It had been said of some old Puritans, that they were never so happy as when they were thoroughly uncomfortable, and that they had a general idea that dyspepsia was a good preparation for going to heaven.

She thought that woman's voice should never be silent in all that goes to counteract evil heredity.

She spoke of the harm done to children by their study for school examinations, and their efforts to gain good marks, medals and prizes.

She spoke of trained nurses; of Miss Nightingale; of woman's work in war, flood and pestilence.

We have been told that, in Persia, the women-doctors nursed the cholera patients, when the men ran away from them.

Dr. Mark said that "women-physicians were needed for their own sex;--and sometimes to work for all humanity, tenderly and prayerfully;--to prolong human life; to lower the death rate; to conserve morality.["]

The President announced that the Class in Economics would meet in our Club room on Thursday at 4 o'clock.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord announced that a meeting for reading and discussion of the English Essayists would be held at her house on Thursday mornings at 10 o'clock.

The President read a letter, sent to her by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, from a lady in Nebraska, speaking of her apprecia-

[219]

tion of the poems of Sidney Lanier.

The next Article on our programme was by Miss [Mary F.] Grace: "An Account of the Refuge at Anglet," in south western France.

She spoke of the scenery around Anglet; of the picturesque road; the infinite perspective; the Pyrenees mountains; the sand and the sky; and the mela[n]choly ocean. Then of the black cross, and the flashing light in the distance; and then of the church and the mass of law buildings, now known all over the world, where six hundred working women have for years been working and serving God.

In 1830 Père Cestac, a good priest of this place, had some poor orphans to take care of, and was seeking for a room to put them into. Once he gave them bread and cheese with the last money he possessed. A woman, once a servant, came to help him; and he gained, first a garret, and afterwards a ground floor, for his work.

Soon unfortunate women came to him, begging him to save them. He could not take them into his mother's house; but, with courage and faith and prayer, he went bravely into the work of making a refuge for them. A house was soon offered for those who had been received for penitence and prayer, and the Refuge was established. It was once destroyed by fire, but was built up again, better than before. Two hundred penitents came to it; and one hundred and fifty Servants of Mary;--the latter being good women, who have adopted the religious life of duty and charity.

There the Bernadines live,--silently laboring, between the sand and the sky, and the mountains and the sea,--a life of expiation and prayer. On land reclaimed from the sea, they do men's work, as well as men. They till the soil, like Tennyson's "stout women of the plough"; they do the

[220]

farm work and the dairy-work;--they make shoes;--they raise magnificent fruit and veg[e]tables to supply the fashionable resort of Biarritz, and the markets of Bayonne.

Nor are woman's works forgotten; such as hours-keeping, cooking and sewing. Fine trousseaux are made,--ecclesiastical vestments, and such exquisitely fine embroidery as we are accustomed to see in museums.

There is no perpetual vow to stay there, but they do not leave the place of consecrated labor.

Not far off is Biarritz, with its attractions and pleasures, its follies,--sins too, perhaps. The contrast is strong enough to have a real fascination for the pleasure-lovers, who come to wonder at and admire the life of expiation and of aspiration at the Refuge of Anglet.

Miss Grace showed us some interesting photographs and some beautiful, fine embroidery; which added greatly to the interest she had excited in the subject of her paper.

She also, afterwards, showed us a little printed book in the Basque language;--reminding us that Basque is a language, and not a dialect. It was a rare and curious thing, and probably new to most of us.

The next Article on our programme was: "The Tramp Problem, as it is Met in Baltimore," by Miss Margaret [Sutton] Briscoe.[^Briscoe]

[^Briscoe]: "The Tramp Problem in Baltimore" was published in the _Christian Union_ in the Aug. 26, 1892 edition.

She spoke of the finely illustrated edition of the Persian poem "Omar K[h]ayyam"; and of that illustration,--which surely all who have seen it will remember,--of human hands, helpless and appealing, striving to uplift themselves; with the lines of a sort of net-work over and through them, of which we can not tell whether they are the cords on which to hold and limb upward; or the bands to bind them down.

[221]

She went on to speak of the old Associate Reformed Church in Fayette Street; which was for two years closed and unoccupied. Many years ago, it was said by one of the rich men of this city, that he liked to sit in his pew in that church;--because he could look around him and see more good notes in bank represented there than in any other church he had ever attended in Baltimore. But now, as Miss Briscoe told us, "Dives had gone out, and Lazarus has come in," with his sores,--if not bodily at least mental and spiritual ones.

After being reduced to silence and emptiness, for a time, the old church, since February 1892, has been occupied by the "Free Breakfast and Rescue Association of this city. It is absolutely undenominational and unsectarian; and here the genus "tramp," in all its varieties, has shelter, at least; and food, that is, coffee and biscuits or sandwiches,--and something more. The directors work for charity only, and the sign is a large S., meaning the effort to give: Soap, Soup, and Salvation.

The founder of this charity tells us that he was walking on night past the dark, deserted booking church, when a voice seemed to call to him: "Bill",--our essayist remarked that Bill's guardian angel spoke in the vernacular,--"Bill," said the voice, "open up this place, and bring in the poor." He wanted one hundred dollars, but began, I believe, with ten.

The Association numbered at first five members, but has grown in numbers and influence; and now has a reading room, a night school, and a lodging-house connected with it.

[222]

There have been results; men have been reclaimed, and made self supporting; sometimes have gone back to the churches to which they have belonged.

But now the yet unreclaimed tramp, who has wandered so far on the downward road, that its [sic] seems to be the only path left open to him, comes to the old hall to sleep in, for his chance of living and not dying--physically and mentally.

Miss Briscoe described a visit she herself paid to the old church on the Sunday before the last. She told us she saw gray-haired men and boys, or perhaps, those who never had been men,--and those who never may be. All had strange, hunted looking eyes. The weaker ones showed their weakness, but the stronger ones were calm. One poor boy broke down for a few minutes, but soon recovered himself. The religious service was simple,--all of it meant to show that "it is never to late to mend."

The paper closed, with the picture again, of the poor tangled hands, uplifted,--here, at our very feet.

Mrs. Graham spoke of the propriety of using our opportunities; and quoted the remark of an aged minister, that "one pound of 'taffy' is worth tons of 'epitaphy.'"

She also spoke of the Art Exhibition of the "Lend a Hand Club," at Mt. Washington; to which she cordially invited our Club.[^Lend]

[^Lend]: Graham was the founder and president of the Lend-a-Hand-Club, the first women's club in Maryland; she was featured in Jennie June Croly's _The History of the Woman's Club in America_ (1898) and was sometimes referred to as the Mother of Women's Clubs in Maryland.

The meeting adjourned.

[223]

[_Pencilled note from Lydia Crane_] After this date I can only find the notes of 2 Executive Meetings, and my mind has been unavoidably so full of other things that I can not recall whether there were any more. I have confused notes of one on November 22nd; and of one on November 28th--I think. If there was one on the 15th, I can only leave a space,--trusting that some other member may be good--and wise enough[--] to recall it. Our excellent Corresponding Secretary will probably remember whether she sent out notices for such a meeting. There was one meeting called for, which failed to be a business meeting on account of the much regretted absence of our President. Of that I took no notes, and can not recall the exact date. L.C.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)