---
title: 1892-10-25 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-10-25-salon.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[201]

## 19th Salon. [Oct. 25, 1892]

The 19th Salon of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, October 25th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, announced that this would be a Tennyson Memorial Meeting;--that a bust of the poet in our room had been decorated by loving hands with a laurel wreath; also, that one of our members, Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early, had sent us his picture, as a gift to the Club;--and that we were to listen to the reading of his own words, chosen by appreciative lovers of his works.

She told us that the laurel wreath was afterwards to be placed on the grave of him whom we might call our own poet, Sidney Lanier, a lover and kindred spirit of the poet we were now commemorating.

Mrs. Turnbull then went on to speak in fitting terms of the late poet laureate of England; of the reverent homage we pay to him as our own household friend; who, in these early days of loss, is best honored when we feel that he has not departed from us, but that our eyes are only too dim to see the links of that great chain that leads up to true life and true knowledge. That across his noble pages the great angel has written "Finis"; but that he, who has moved others to nobler life, has gone up higher to live with God and god-like men.

Miss [Lydia] Crane then read Mrs.[Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lords poem on "Whittier and Tennyson,"--telling of the two

[202]

deaths so near in time, and of the two poet souls--

<POETRY>
"--from East and West,
Together entering into glorious rest."
</POETRY>

Miss [Mary F.] Grace next read Tennyson's poem: "Wages,"--the "wages, not of glory, nor of dust,"--"not of a golden grove" nor "a summer sky," but--"the wages of going on, and not to die!"

Miss [Margaret Moore] Piggot then read to us: "The Passing of Arthur," "Morte d'Arthur,"--that old and still new favorite of many of us.

Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese next gave us, from "In Memoriam," Section 53rd;--and surely her reading from the first lines:--

<POETRY>
"Oh yet we trust that somehow good
Will be the final goal of ill,--"</POETRY>

--to the closing ones,--

<POETRY>
"I can but hope that good shall fall
At last--far off--at last, to all,
And every winter change to spring."
</POETRY>

--struck the answering chord in our heaarts. Miss Reese also read to us: "In the Garden at Swainston."

Miss Grace then read, in place of Mrs. [Priscilla Paca] Hoblitzell, who was not able to be present with us, an Article from "English Stems," by a Mr. Ward, written in 1853. He wrote of "Events in Greece"; and, in that connection, spoke of the "noble pilgrim" to Greece of thirty years before, and of the motives which inspired his sacrifice to that struggling nation. But he tells us that "ignorance of Byron is now considered a becoming thing;

[203]

and the attempt is made to lift Mr. Alfred Tennyson into his place;"--also, that "the insipid writings of Mr. Tennyson are read instead of the inspired poems of Byron."

At the time this was written ["]In Memoriam["] had known only three years of fame. Now, it has had more than forty; and surely, the critics of today are in advance of Mr. Ward.

The Criticism was followed by the reading of four selections from ["]In Memoriam["]: telling of "the loss" that "is common to the race";--and of the "trembling fingers weaving the holly round the Christmas hearth";--and of the voices than sang of those--

<POETRY>
"--who do not die,
Nor lose their mortal sympathy."
</POETRY>

Miss [Annie S.] Perot read to us from the same poem, Section 50,--telling us that our loved ones,--"when we climb or fall," can "watch like God",--

<POETRY>
"--With other, larger eyes than ours
To make allowance for us all."
</POETRY>

The President said that ["]]In Memoriam["] had evidently gone home to many hearts; and many of us seemed to have chosen our favorite portions of it for this occasion.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham then, by request, gave us her poem called "Gone."  The poem tells of the poet going up "on the moonbeam's shining tide," "as a bridegroom to his bride"; and calls on the songsters "here below"--to--"sing across the tide of woe";--for that "Death, for our living gives us Life."

[204]

Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall then gave us that very late poem of the old poet,--"Crossing the Bar,"--in which looking up to the--

<POETRY>
Sunset and evening Star!"--
</POETRY>

he says:--

<POETRY>
"I shall meet my Pilot face to face,
When I have crossed the Bar."
</POETRY>

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull then gave us, very approximately, Sir Edwin Arnold's poem in answer to "Crossing the Bar," beginning with--

<POETRY>
"No moaning of the Bar,"--
</POETRY>

--and closing with--

<POETRY>
"Christ, they Pilot, speaking peace to thee!"
</POETRY>

It was prefaced by an account of a day spent with Tennyson, a year ago.

Our President also read Dr. Van Dyke's poem,--"In Lucem Transitus," telling that--"Here passed a soul--that grew to music, toll it was with God in tune."

A request was made that the Introduction to ["]In Memoriam["] should be read;--which was done by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham. Our meeting might have seemed incomplete, if that had been left out.

After a few more of the most beautiful lines from the same poem;--Mrs. Turnbull told us that we had to regret the absence of Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, who could have given us some of the pleasant experiences of her sister, Mrs. Fields;[^Fields]--the latter lady having twice visited Tennyson in his own home.

[^Fields]: Annie Adams Fields (1834-1915) was a writer and poet who became a prominent figure in the world of Boston publishing by virtue of being the second wife of James T. Fields of the Ticknor and Fields publishing company. After James Fields died in 1881, Annie Fields joined in domestic and emotional partnership with the writer Sarah Orne Jewett, in an arrangement commonly referred to as a "Boston marriage." Throughout her life, Fields promoted and facilitated the publication of women writers. 

Mrs. Turnbull also read to us the last

[205]

poem of Tennyson, written about ten days before his death.

She also reminded us of a poem by his wife, Lady Tennyson, which had been read to us on a former occasion.

Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait gave us an account of having known a brother of the great poet; and of having once when very young, looked upon the poet himself,--with an admiration, that was something like adoration.

We seemed to have spent much of our afternoon in the presence of the dead poet; but I think we felt, as an older poet has said:

<POETRY>
"Nothing is here for tears, northing to wail,--
--nothing but well and fair.
And what may quiet us in a death so noble."
</POETRY>

The remainder of the evening was spent in conversation around the pleasant tea-tables that our House Committee had prepared for us.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)