---
title: 1892-10-18 Meeting Mintues
layout: page
permalink: /1892-10-18-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 61st General Meeting. [Oct. 18, 1892]

The 61st general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, October 18th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President called the meeting to order; and the Secretary read the Minutes of the previous meeting on October 11th.

The President announced that the next meeting would be a Salon; and that there would be no regular programme on that occasion, but that we should make it in some sense a Tennyson Memorial meeting; that in justice to ourselves, we should not pass over silently the death of the Poet Laureate of England,--of

[190]

whom we are, no doubt, all sincere lovers. She therefore proposed that those of us who felt so inclined should make selections of our favorite poems or extracts, and read them to the club. To avoid confusion or repetition those who intended to read were requested to send to the President or Secretary the exact titles of the poems selected; and, also, alternate selections, to be used if those chosen should have been already appropriated. The best way to commemorate the great master would be to read his own words, and let him speak to us again, with the voice that can not die.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton then placed on the President's table an exquisite vase,--a present to the Club--from Miss Grace Denio Litchfield, an honorary member, whose interest in the Club is highly ap[p]reciated by all of us. A vote of thanks and appreciation was passed unanimously; which the Secretary was requested to convey to Miss Litchfield.

An invitation to an artist's studio was given to us, and a notice read of Professor Daves's Literary Class.

The President recalled to us that there was some business before the Club. "But,["] she said, as the especial cause for our existence as a Club is literary work, and business is only auxiliary to it, literary work ought not to be crowded out for business;--each

[191]

should be kept it its proper sphere, to do otherwise would be a fault in us. Our programmes are arranged for weeks beforehand; and a failure today would make a change until the middle of March.

A motion was made that today our former order should reversed; or, rather, that all our business should be simply adjourned until 5 o'clock;--our literary exercises coming before that hour, and business after it. The proposal was agreed to.

The President announced that a valuable Article, by Miss Mary Wilcox Brown, on: "Genoa,--Its Economic Condition in the Time of Columbus," would have to be omitted. Miss Brown was unable to be present, and it was beyond the power of anyone to read the manuscript without some previous acquaintance with it; and there was no time to transfer it to a type-writer,--consequently it must be lost to us.

The first Article was announced as by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat. It was on "A Century of Production in France."  Our Essayist spoke of Political Economy as: The Science which investigates the Production of Wealth, and the Laws which govern it. She spoke of land, labor and capital; especially of land, going back to the point of view of the earlier races of the world; and, also, of the struggle for the possession of land, from very ancient times to very modern ones. Then of the wonderful power of the

[192]

French people for recovering from disaster.

The time she particularly reviewed covered rather more than a century,--beginning just before the great Revolution. It had been, she said, the supposition that the Revolution created the peasant proprietors. But the modifications which led to the destruction of the feudal system began, not with the Revolution, but with the Crusades. Lords emancipated their serfs for the good of their own souls; and the peasant who had been living on black bread and roots began to have a new value, even before legislative assemblies. But that France, with her eight millions of freeholders now, has made great progress since 1780.

Our essayist spoke of the pen-picture given of the ruin and desolation of that time, when it was said that "if men and women ate grass and hay, what was left for the cattle?" The account was written by an English squire, Arthur Young, who, despite his insularity, as we might think, was the agent of a holy propagandism in the agriculture of France. "In 1801 the French Directory ordered the whole of Arthur Young's agricultural writings to be translated into French."

But even before the Revolution peasant-proprietors had begun to contribute to the wealth of the country.

[193]

Mrs. Sioussat told us of the vintage industry and of how, twenty five years ago, the vines were attacked by an insect whose redoubtable life was carried by the winds from one province to another. But the wines were replanted, and the brave struggle went on till the losses were repaired. Then how the silk industry began to fail, from a silk worm pest. But Pasteur taught the value of breeding only from healthy moths; and it has been said that the ribbon trade alone could pay a very large proportion of the war indemnity. Also, that the Eif[f]el tower, with two stories added, in silver, might scarcely represent the savings funds of the French people. That the progress of the future is unimaginable, and that France is truly "the school master of the world in thrift."

The next Article on our programme was by our former Vice President, Mrs. Hester Crawford [Dorsey] Richardson, and called: "The Higher Education of Women, Applied to Philanthropy."  It was kindly and appreciatively read by Miss [Henrietta] Szold.

It began by speaking of one of the promising signs of the times,--a sort of new religion,--which allows the woman of the higher education to mingle with her unfortunate sisters without soiling her own robes. The graduates of Smith, and other colleges, are engaging in work like that of Toynbee Hall in London.[^Toynbee] Some devote a month at a time to this work; some

[^Toynbee]: Toynbee Hall was established by Samuel and Henrietta Barnett in 1884 in London's East End. They hoped to use Toynbee Hall to bring young members of Britain's educated elite into direct contact with poverty and other social problems in order to spur social change. 

[194]

pass the summer vacation among the inmates of the homes they have provided for their less fortunate sister; interesting and instructing them,--they do not say reforming them,--and giving them nobler ideas than they have any chance to meet with elsewhere; calling them friends, and forming constant friendships with them. This is the higher practical socialism carried out by the College and University Settlements. The effect of the higher education is not girlish sentimentalism, but good work for the practical education of others. The women and the men who engage in this work are successful in the moral and political training of the denizens of the slums; they are not disgusted by these people, they do not make them feel that they are to be reformed(?). We were reminded of Walter Besant's writings on this subject.[^Besant] We were told that the higher education has brought out a sincere enthusiasm to work for Philanthropy. We were reminded that this College and University Extension is spreading to the South;--and the Article closed with the expres[s]ion of the belief that, from our Woman's Literary Club, the same spirit is moving us to action: not, of course as a Club, but as individual women.

[^Besant]: Besant's People's Palace was discussed in the meeting of March 17, 1891.

All of the Literary Programme of the meeting that could be given, being now over, the President announced that the adjourned business of the Club would

[195]

now be taken up.

Mrs. Sioussat moved to proceed with the business left unfinished at the last meeting; which motion was seconded, and followed by an affirmative vote.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham rose to withdraw her motion regarding the Corresponding Secretary, offered as a substitution for Miss Bond's resolution, which latter had, she told us, in her belief, received a vote of 21 to 11.

The question arose whether, according to Parliamentary law, a motion made, but not voted upon, at a former meeting, was still before the house?

The President recalled to our recollection that a motion had not been made for a reconsideration of the voting of last Tuesday.

After some discussion, a motion to reconsider the vote of the last meeting was made; and decided in the affirmative, by a _viva voca_ vote.

Miss Bond read her resolution, providing "that a Corresponding Secretary shall be nominated by the President, and voted for by the Club",--with the amendment, adding the words;--"by ballot."

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock asked if the Corresponding Secretary would have a vote in the Board of Management?

Some discussion arose as to whether this question made a separate resolution necessary?--also whether Miss Bond's resolution was an amendment to any other resolution?

[196]

The Secretary was asked to read from her Minutes of the previous meeting, the part relating to Miss Bond's resolution. It recorded that the resolution was proposed as an Amendment to the Constitution.

The question of a separate resolution seems to have been dropped;--probably because the Article of the Constitution to be amended enumerates the members of the Board of Management; to whom it was now proposed to add the Corresponding Secretary.

A standing vote was taken on Miss Bond's resolution--providing for the nomination and election of a Corresponding Secretary--which resulted, on being counted, in 30 votes in favor to 6 against it. Carried.

A correction was afterwards particularly requested by one member which would have made the vote 31 to 5.

Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor then offered a resolution that the Executive Board shall have power to fill any vacancies that shall occur in their own body during the Club year. The question arose whether this shall be done from the members of the Board?--or from the general membership of the Club?

Mrs. Graham moved, as an amendment, that vacancies in the Board of Management shall be filled from the ranks of the Club.

Miss Haughton seconded this motion; and it received an affirmative vote.

[197]

After some discussion a vote was taken on Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor's resolution--as amended--, on the filling of vacancies in the Board of Management; and it was carried; with only 2 votes against it.

Mrs. Graham then made the motion to proceed to the election of Corresponding Secretary.

Miss [Eliza] Ridgley said that the duties of the two Secretaries should be carefully defined. There was some discussion on this point, and proposals to refer it to a committee.

The President spoke of the ability, leisure and other qualifications necessary to the work of a Corresponding Secretary.

Miss [Fanny] Hoffman gave us some information gained from her own experience in work of this kind.

Miss Ridgely, who, for two years, has successfully combined for us the offices of both Recording and Corresponding Secretaries, spoke of the work to be done; and said that the Recording Secretary should have charge of the Minutes and the Records of the Club and that the Corresponding Secretary should notify new members of their election, issue notices, and conduct the correspondence of the Club.

The President agreed to this statement of the division of labor between the two secretaries, which was afterwards put in the form of a motion and received an affirmative vote,--with no opposition.

[198]

Mrs. Graham's resolution to nominate and elect a Corresponding Secretary having been agreed to, the President now sent her nomination to be read by the Secretary. It was of Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud.

A ballot was taken, and 30 votes were cast, of which Miss Cloud received every one,--and was declared elected, unanimously.

The President said that it had been difficult to make a choice; but that Miss Cloud's experience of similar work to that required, her interest in the Club, and her regular attendance--except when prevented by more pressing home duties--,had combined to influence her decision.

The Meeting adjourned. The new incumbent of the new office received many congratulations from her fellow members.

There was much discussion at this meeting; and some apparent by irregular motions, difficult to record or to remember. One member did propose that all motions should be reduced to writing, and passed up to be read by the Secretary;--but another exclaimed: "Then we shall never get home this evening!"

That we did "get home"--so far as known--in sufficiently good time; after having elected a very acceptable Corresponding Secretary,--after having defined the duties of the two secretaries,--after having empowered the Board of Managment to fill vacancies in its own membership, occurring during the Club yet,--we have to thank our members who discussed the

[199]

proposed changes in our affairs,--and voted, conscientiously, for or against them.

[Adopted.]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)