---
title: 1892-12-20 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-12-20-salon.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 20th Salon [Dec. 27, 1892]

The twentieth Salon of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on December 27th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street. The Recording Secretary [i.e., Lydia Crane] was unavoidably absent, and no notes were taken of the meeting. The only account of it accessible to the Secretary was the one which appeared in the "Baltimore Sun" of the next morning, Wednesday, December 28th, 1892. In order not to be entirely without a record of this meeting, the Secretary has concluded to copy the "Sun's" account;--as follows.

_"Woman's Literary Club_.--In honor of the holiday season the rooms of the Woman's Literary Club yesterday were decorated with holly,

[19]

mistletoe and evergreens, and the afternoon was spent in informed conversation and in the enjoyment of refreshments. The only paper read was by Miss Margaret [Moore] Piggott, whose subject was: "A War-Time Christmas in a North Carolina Plantation." Miss Piggott's father was a commandant of the Confederate State's Medical Laboratory near Lincolnton, North Carolina. An amusing description was given of the Christmas feast, over which the guests made merry, notwithstanding the fact that its principal features were cakes made of sorghum molasses, and egg-flip made of brandy distilled from persimmons or of rum from the sorghum molasses, and the modest meal illuminated by candles made by the hostess herself, with wicks plaited by her little children.

A number of gifts of books were received yesterday by the Club, including Cardinal [James] Gibbons's "Faith of our Fathers" and "Our Christian Heritage," presented and inscribed by the author, "Goth's Tales of the Chesapeake" and "Mrs. Reynolds and Hamilton," presented by the author "Goth," (George Alfred Townsend,) and Mrs. M. [Marguerite] E. Easter's volume of poems "Clytie."

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)