---
title: 1892-12-20 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-12-20-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 69th General Meeting. [Dec. 20, 1892][^LC3]

[^LC3]: Crane's note written above the heading: "Imperfect Notes."

The 69th general meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on December 20th, 1892, at No. 12, East Centre Street.

The meeting was called to order by the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

She reminded us our our approaching change of quarters, and of the necessary expense attending the

[14]

furnishing of our new rooms; and went on to speak of two propositions having been made for meeting this new outlay.

The first was in some sort of the nature of an assessment, or, rather, of a present to be made by each member to the Club at this time. The second was of the character of a loan; that is that each member should pay three dollars ($3.00) into the Treasury;[^3dollars] the same amount to be deducted from her dues next year,--making them seven instead of ten dollars for the coming Club year.

[^3dollars]: Three dollars is worth about $85 in 2020 dollars.

Of course these proposals were to be presented once more to the Club, probably at the next meeting, which would be a Salon, the last one of this year.

The President also said that there were no programmes for the present meeting; there being but one literary article to be read, namely: "The Report of the Educational Committee of the Club on the Public Schools of Baltimore;--written, and to be read by Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin, the Chairman of the Committee on Education.

Mrs. Colvin spoke first of the invitation extended by Professor Wise, State Superintendent of Public Schools, to this Committee to visit the Public Schools of the city. The Report stated that the examination had been confined chiefly to the schools for girls;--their Primary,--Grammar and High Schools.

[The Recording Secretary had been prevented from deciphering the notes she took on Mrs. Colvin's very interesting article. She can only refer to the published account of it in the morn-

[15]

ing paper,--The Sun--, of December 21st, 1892;--which was comparatively quite full; though not of course doing full justice to Mrs. Colvin's Report.[^article]

[^article]: An article from the Dec. 21, 1892 _Baltimore Sun_ "Schools Criticised" (p. 8),  is sewn into the top of page 15 and details the analysis of the WLCB members' inspection of the schools, which took place on Dec. 20.

Of the ten Recommendations with which the article closed, and which were not given consecutively in the newspaper, Miss [Mary F.] Grace has kindly taken a copy, and they are so good as they stand, that it may be well to recall them.

[Recommendations copied by Miss Grace.]

"I close by briefly recapitulating the different reforms which have been herein mentioned.

"1st, Introduction of a two year system of Kindergartens,

"2nd, A modification of the Primary work, introducing greater variety in the teaching, less Arithmetic, and more Elementary Science, Geography and History; and, above all, better methods in the teaching of Reading and English.

"3rd, The Grammar School course should be modified in the same directions; there should be more and better Geography, History and Science teaching.

"4th, The course (of French in the High Schools[^FREN]) should be made the same as that of the City College.

[^FREN]: Crane's note written at the bottom of the page: "The course of the French High Schools should be made &c"

"5th, Above all the requirements as to the qualifications of teachers should be increased. No teacher should be considered eligible unless, in addition to being a graduate of the High School, she has had at least a year's practical training in modern and proved methods.

"6th, A training School, with the necessary practice Schools, should be established for the purpose of supplying this instruction.

"7th, Manual Training should be introduced into the Gram-

[16]

mar Schools for the boys; and booking Schools for the girls.

"8th, More systematic attention should be paid to Physical Training and Drawing, which branches should be under the supervision of suitably trained Matters, instead of being left to the whim or will of individual teachers.

"9th, Small Libraries, carefully selected should be furnished for each School House.

"10th, Several Assistant Superintendents should be appointed to assist the Superintendent, and to ensure a more effective supervision of the Schools."

After the reading of the Report by Mrs. Colvin, the members of the Educational Committee were requested to come forward and sit near the platform, as some of their fellow members wished to ask a few questions.

The Committee complied with the request.

Miss [Mabel] Carter, a member of the Committee stated that it was due to the Public Board of Education to state that Latin was now to be introduced into the High Schools.

Miss Bond, also of the Committee, spoke of the efforts made by the Superintendent to introduce History and Literature into the Public Schools,--and of our wish to do him full justice.

Miss [Edith] Duer spoke of the Normal School, and of the small number of its graduates who are teaching in the city of Baltimore, as compared with those in the rest of the State.

Mrs. Turnbull spoke of Dr. Wise's request to her that this Committee of the Club should visit and inspect the Public Schools. She also spoke of the opinion expressed by one of the professors of the Johns Hopkins University,

[17]

that the students from the City College have taken almost the highest grade of all who have offered to enter the University.

Miss Bond spoke of a proposed change in the schools, with regard to girls passing from class to class without examination in Language and Arithmetic.

Miss Carter thought that the great amount of mere mechanical work done caused a loss of power, and retarded development.

A request for the publication of the Report was answered by Mrs. Colvin, that the Superintendent ought to go over it first.

A suggestion was made of the difference in social status between boys and girls in the Public Schools--a lady being sometimes willing to send her boy, but not her girl, to them,--as having something to do with the higher grade of education for the boys: somewhat according to the laws of supply and demand.

Miss [Margaret Moore] Piggot gave some interesting experiences of her own; having known something about Public and Normal School teaching in Baltimore, and in one of the rural--very rural--districts of the State.

Mention was made of the very limited amount of education given in the Primary Schools; which is often all that many children receive. Also of the greater need for culture for these children than for those who attend private schools--generally.

Miss Bond spoke of her experience in meeting with grown up "public school girls" in Sunday School and Bible Class work, etc. One girl, she said, while holding and tapping an Elementary History, told her that this was the first time she had ever had a

[18]

"history book" in her hand. After she had elaborately explained to another girl that the Roman Empire dominated the world at the time of the Christian Era, she found that the idea received has been that the Roman Catholic Church held sway over the nations of the earth at that time. The word Roman conveyed only a religious notion to that girl's mind. Possibly hers was a very dull or a very ignorantly religious mind, however. We have many of us met such minds, in and out of Sunday Schools and Bible Classes.

After some other suggestions, and conversation, the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)