---
title: 1892-10-11 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-10-11-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 60th General Meeting [Oct. 11, 1892]

The 60th General Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday Afternoon, October 11th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

Several guests were introduced to the members.

The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, called the meeting to order, and the Secretary read the Minutes of the former meeting on October 4th.

The President announced that the Programme next called for: "Business of the Club"; and that the first business in order was;--The question of creating the office of Corresponding Secretary of the Club;--of which notice had been given at the last meeting.

A resolution was offered by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat to add to Article II of our Constitution--On Officers--a Section providing for a Corresponding Secretary, who should be the President's assistant, and should be appointed by the President.

[185]

Mrs. Sioussat being absent, the resolution was read by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, who moved its adoption. Miss [Mary F.] Grace seconded the motion.

Miss Edith Duer made some very decided objections to the motion; and afterwards proposed to amend it by omitting the words "appointed by the President," and substituting for them, "elected by the Club."

Miss Haughton spoke in support of Mrs. Sioussat's resolution.

Miss Fannie [Fanny] Hoffman spoke in agreement with Miss Duer, and in opposition to the resolution.

After some discussion, a vote was taken "_viva voce_," which did not seem to be definite or satisfactory, and a standing vote was called for. This resulted in 14 for and 14 against the resolution. We were then reminded that a two-thirds vote was necessary to amend our Constitution. The resolution had failed.

Miss [Eliza] Ridgely, in a very few words, said that we ought to have a Corresponding Secretary, but that it seemed to her desirable to have that officer elected in the same manner as the other members of the Board of Management.

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin spoke briefly to the same effect.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham suggested that the President might nominate the Corresponding Secretary--might give us one, or more, names, on which we could vote.

We were reminded that the President of the United States appoints his assistants,

[186]

--his Cabinet--who are afterwards voted upon, and confirmed, or rejected, by the Senate.

The President said that she had often received offers of assistance in Club work, from members of the Club who had young children, or other pressing home claims;--consequently she had felt a delicacy in accepting their aid. While any member would be acceptable to her, she would be glad to have chosen for this place one whom she could feel always willing to ask for assistance in her work. She was also thinking of providing for the comfort of her successor--in this respect.

Mrs. Graham said that, as we were a society of women, we might as well do as other women are accustomed to do. She then gave us some account of the Association for the Advancement of Women, and of the official position of its Corresponding Secretary.

A suggestion was made for a special meeting to consider the subject before us,--which was not acted upon.

Miss Ridgely moved to add to Article II, Section 1st, of our Constitution, On Officers, that there shall be a Recording Secretary, and a Corresponding Secretary; also making these additions in Section 2nd, of the same Article, to the list of officers to be elected by ballot; and to amend Section 5th, so as to provide for the division of duties of the Recording and Corresponding Secretaries.

[187]

Miss Duer seconded this motion.

After some discussion, and proposed amendments, the vote was taken; resulting in 12 votes in favor of the motion to 15 against it.

After further discussion, participated in by Mrs. Griffin, Miss [Mary F.] Grace, Miss [Elizabeth T.] King, Miss Duer and others, Miss Bond moved an amendment to the Constitution providing that a Corresponding Secretary shall be nominated by the President, and voted upon by the Club.

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock seconded the motion. A vote was taken, resulting in 20 votes for the motion to 11 against it,--still not a two-thirds vote, even though some of the members counted, and they thought, 21 votes in favor to 11 against the motion.

The President, as well as some other members, being uncertain with regard to the counting of the votes on this motion, made the request that it be taken over again by a standing vote; but this proposal was not agreed to, nor, apparently, considered.

On a counting of the members there was said to be 34 present, and, consequently, that all could not have voted.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham made a motion, resembling Miss Bond's, providing that the President shall make the nominations for Corresponding Secretary, which shall be voted on--by ballot.

Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter seconded the motion.

[188]

The question arose whether the same motion could be put forward over again--after failing?

Mrs. Graham said that she had added the words: "by ballot" to Miss Bond's motion,--consequently, it was not the same.

Mrs. Graham and Mrs. Turnbull called to our attention that Mrs. [Margaret] Lake, having come in late, had not understood Miss Bond's motion, and that her vote had been lost to the majority. The question was asked whether Mrs. Lake did not have the right to have her vote counted?

It was not decided; nor did Mrs. Graham's motion reach a vote. Some of our members had left the room; and the President announced that the time allotted for this meeting had more than passed away;--and that it would be necessary to defer the whole business on hand to our next meeting. It was certainly a matter for regret that the pressure of business obliged us entirely to omit the two literary articles of this afternoon's programme:--the first, on "Women as guardians of the Public Health," by Dr. Ella [Nellie] V. Mark: and the second: "Love's House,--A Thought Materialization," by Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock.

But, as we are often told; "Business is business," and must come "before pleasure."  Perhaps we were--all of us--a little oblivious

[189]

of that maxim of Lord Chesterfield that, "Dispatch is the soul if business."  Yet may we not hope that the pleasure too is only deferred?--that we shall not only soon gain our Corresponding Secretary, but that Dr. Mark will yet help us to be better guardians of the public health than ever before; and that "Love's House" will some day materialize before us, under the wand of Mrs. Whitelock's effective fancy?[^Love]

[^Love]: "Love's House" was published in Whitelock's _A Mad Madonna and Other Stories_ (Boston: Joseph Knight, 1895).

Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)