---
title: 1892-11-29 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-11-29-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[236]

## 66th General Meeting. [Nov. 29, 1892]

The 66th General Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, November 29th, 1892 at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, being absent, the First Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, occupied the chair. and called the Meeting to order.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the Meeting on November 22nd.

Miss Haughton gave a message from Mrs. Turnbull of regret for her absence from the meetings of the Club, on account of sickness in her family, and of thanks for the notes and inquiries of her fellow members, to which she had been unable to send special answers.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham moved a resolution of sympathy with Mrs. Turnbull; which was seconded by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, and adopted.

Mrs. Graham then announced that a meeting of all those who are interested in the Woman's Work for the World's Fair at Chicago, was to be held this same afternoon at the Young Men's Christian Association Building, to which this Club was invited by Mrs. William Reed, who has charge of the Maryland Branch of the Committee of Woman's Work for the Fair.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin moved that we now adjourn; in order to attend the Meeting at the Christian Association Building. She also said she hoped as many of us as possible would attend that Meeting.

Miss [Mary F.] Grace spoke of our wish to hear the Articles of Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock and Miss [Maria H.] Middleton appointed to be read at this Meeting of our Club.

Mrs. Colvin and Mrs. Graham said they hoped to hear these Articles on a future occasion.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord thought it would not be fair to put them off.

Miss Haughton said that to do so would be to defer them, at least, till next Spring; as all of our programmes were made up until then.

Miss Grace moved to request Mrs. Whitelock to read her Story to us. Mrs. Whitelock moved that her Story should be passed over.

[237]

Miss [Margaret Moore] Piggot moved that we should adjourn at 5 o'clock, to attend the Meeting to which we were invited.

Mrs. Colvin moved that the programme should be put forward in time.

Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman moved that a few member[s] should attend the Meeting, as the representatives of the Club.

Miss [Alice] Morison seconded the motion; which was carried.

Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter moved that the Chair appoint the delegation to attend the Meeting; which was seconded by Mrs. Colvin; and adopted.

The Chair appointed Mrs. Graham, Mrs. Colvin, Mrs. [M. N.] Perry and Mrs. Easter to represent the Club at the Meeting of the World's Fair Commitee;--and the delegation immediately went to assume its duties.[^WorldExpo]

[^WorldExpo]: The Library assembled for the Woman's Building at the 1893 World Columbian Exposition in Chicago was the first-ever library of works written solely by women. It contained some 8,000 volumes selected by over 4,000 women from around the world, more than 2,500 of them from the US alone. Books were submitted by state/country. The Maryland delegation, to which the WLCB sent representatives from the Nov. 29, 1892 meeting, sent more than 60 books to be included, and perhaps due to the healthy representation of its members, the WLCB accounted for 10 of the 25 authors known to be included from the state. Mary Spear Tiernan had 3 novels included, while Florence Trail, Mary Noyes Colvin, and Francese Turnbull each had 2 books, and Louise Clarkson Whitelock, Margaret Sutton Briscoe, and Marguerite Easter, Lizette Woodworth Reese, and Annie Weston Whitney each had one. Katharine Pearson Woods, representing the state of West Virginia, had three books included, making up nearly half of the seven books known to be submitted by the state. Unfortunately, the card catalog of the 8000 works included in the library was lost. The incomplete printed list linked below is the only known record of what books were included.

Mrs. Whitelock then read her Story: "Lady Cloud-Cap's Guide;--A Fashionable Aberration."

She told of some English tourists in Switzerland;--Lady Cloud-Cap;--her husband, Sir John;--their two sons, Miles and Victor; their servants;--and, their Guide. Lady Cloud-Cap was an English beauty, with a will of her own; and not accustomed to having it crossed, by any on[e],--especially not by her husband. That good well-bred Baronet was accustomed to see his young wife's pretty head turned to one side, and to hear her say: "Now John!"--whereupon with old-fashioned gallantry, he was ready to affirm or to deny any statement she made or contradicted;--was ready to go to the places, or upon the excursions selected by the fair commanding officer of the party.

Just now they were going over the Gemmi Pass. Notwithstanding the warnings of a coming storm, Lady Cloud-Cap was bent on their making the ascent, under the guidance of François De Lorne; a handsome fellow,

[238]

half Swiss, half Italian; already a pet guide;--though it was inconvenient that one could not talk to him as one could to a pet poodle.

The storm comes on; the party is broken up; the guide saves the lady's life; the children are saved also; but Sir John, out of sight and hearing of his really fond wife, is rolled down the rocks, and killed.

The guide breaks the news to the lady with untaught propriety and kindness. The shock and her self-reproach, make her ill, there, in the rude shelter of a resting place in the mountains;--and the young mountaineer becomes more than a guide;--a friend in need,--though his native sense of propriety seems never to desert him. We are made to feel and understand it all.

A year and a half after the terrible adventure, letters come from England to Madame De Lorne, admiringly congratulating her on her having given up her title, and having married her "Hevetian Adonis," "her prince in disguise";--although the writers thereof, of course, among themselves always called him: Lady Cloud-Cap's guide. And they were truly right, in calling him so, too.

But the guide in his mountain guide's dress was handsomer, even more noble looking, than in any conventional dress-suit he could now wear. He does not wish to go to England;--to live in luxury there. And we are told in this Story, that even a selfish woman, when she is in love, is capable of heroism. Consequently, the former Lady Cloud-Cap concludes to live in Switzerland, among her husband's "people"; bidding farewell to her former life; and to Lady Cap herself.

We enjoyed the characteristic words and actions of the lady and her guide, having heard that; "all hearts

[239]

in love use their own tongues."  It is Bulwer Lytton who says: "Persons in the higher ranks of society, so exposed to _ennui,_ are either rendered totally incapable of real love,--or they love far more intensely than those in a lower station".

Our next Article was by Miss [Maria H.] Middleton, and was on: "Time and Time-pieces."

She spoke of the earliest times and time pieces;--of the heavenly bodies, "set to rule over the day, and over the night,"--of the old myth of Saturn, or Chronos, offspring of Heaven and Earth,--of the measurement of time by the stars, as they became or ceased to be visible in the heavens,--of the Chaldeau shepherds, with their early Astronomy,--of the clepsydra, and of the sun-dials used by the monks in the 12th century,--of the altar at Stonehenge,--of the candles and lanterns of the middle ages,--on to the days of Galileo and to more modern times,--down to the highly improved clocks and watches of the present day.

Then leaving the time measurers, Miss Middleton took up time itself, in its earthly and limited meaning, and in its grander sense also.

She closed by reading a poem by Charles Stuart Calverly on Forever. "Forever," he said, "is now one word, but our rude forefathers deemed it two";--and, after dwelling on the meaning and spirit of the word, with humor and pathos, he says he is not altogether sure that our ancestors erred in dividing it.

Miss [Margaret Moore] Piggot next gave us a poem of her own, formerly read before the "Lend a Hand Club" of Mt. Washington. It was called: "How Queen Isabella Lent a Hand."

She described a certain Christopher Columbus,

[240]

as having discovered, from the cracking of an egg-shell, that the world is round; and forthwith endeavoring to induce somebody to lend a hand to discover America. And Queen Isabella, as one of those good women who have a mission; one who, in our days, would have endeavored to convert the Feegees; and, in her own days, did try to convert the Moslems, though the sermons of the missionaries were then apt to be delivered by men with guns. The poems went on to tell of her endeavoring to fulfil her own mission, without which praiseworthy resolution our own fair land might be remained undiscovered.

The presiding officer then announced that there were some books to be acknowledged as having been presented to the Club;--some which had failed to be acknowledged last Spring, and some recent gifts.

Among others were: Mr. E. C. Stedman's Percy Turnbull Lectures, dedicated to Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Turnbull, and to the Memory of their Son. Also, Poems, by Mrs. Turnbull;--a book by our fellow member, Miss Margaret [Sutton] Briscoe;--Opportunity, by Anne Moncure Crane,--a work by Sidney Lanier, and several works by Mr. D[aniel]. C[oit]. Gilman, President of the Johns Hopkins University.

Announcement was made of a series of German lectures and meetings for German conversation.

Reference was made to the Library of Maryland Authors we are endeavoring to collect, also of a List of the books written by the women of Maryland, to go to the Chicago Columbian Exhibition.

After the announcement that the Meeting of next Tuesday would be under the direction of the Committee on Modern Poetry,--the Meeting adjourned.

End of 66th Meeting.

[END of MS 988 BOX 3, BOOK DATED Mar. 19, 1890-Nov. 29, 1892]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)