---
title: 1892-12-13 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1892-12-13-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[8]

## 68th General Meeting. [Dec. 13, 1892]

The 68th General Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, December 13th, 1892, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

Before the meeting was called to order, the officers present were presented with the latest Annual Report of the Woman's Literary Club of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, from its Secretary, Adelaide Stevens. The presentation was made through our fellow member, Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin.

Our President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, being unavoidably absent, the first Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, was again called upon to preside.

The time for the meeting having arrived, and the number of members present being quite small, the presiding officer asked whether it might not be well to postpone the exercises of the programme, from this very rainy afternoon, until the meeting of next Tuesday.

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] asked if that might not seem an encouragement to stay at home on rainy days?

Other members having come in, a vote was taken; which resulted in favor of giving the programme to those of us who were present.

Miss Haughton then called the meeting to order;--and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the previous meeting on

[9]

December 6th.

The first Article of the programme was an Essay by Miss Mary Wilcox Brown, on "Genoa, Its Economic Condition in the days of Columbus."

She spoke of the rise and progress of great cities; from Babylon and Nineveh, down to those of modern times. Then of the past and present beauty and glory of Genoa;--of the power that it attained in the middle ages. Also of its commercial rank, its great maritime eminence; of its colonial enterprise; of its successful rivalship with Venice,--sometimes even rising into superiority over the sister-republic. She said that labor was not despised in Genoa, and that this was especially true with regard to the kinds of labor that added to the wealth of the country. That much of the greatness of Genoa was owing to the Crusades; they modified serfdom, and gave power to the middle class. That while like England, France and Germany, the Italian States fought for the glory of the Cross, they gained great commercial benefits by their connections with the Christian settlements in the East, and even by trade with the Saracens themselves. There was a flow of gold from Constantinople to the Italian cities. Their trade spread into Asia and Africa.

We were told of the conflicts of Genoa with Pisa, and with Venice; also, of its different

[10]

forms of government, especially of the two centuries of the rule of the Doges. We were given an animated description of the beautiful city--which even now does not fail to arouse the enthusiasm of those who visit "Genova la superba,"--of its churches and palaces, with their curious relics and works of art. Then of the great admiral Andrea Doria, with his magnificent style of living, with his retainers and slaves, with his private mint,--and, also, of his services to the State.

Our Essayist reminded us that feudalism received its death blow in the old European Countries after the invention of printing, and the introduction of gunpowder. The system had lived on under the old methods of war and learning, and--for too long--cupidity had blinded the eyes of the ruling classes to the wealth of the soil. Still, that under the old barons, land was wealth, guarded by primogeniture and entail. That the use of metals as the standards of values tended to level the barriers between the classes. That Ge[n]oa taught her neighbors the uses of money; besides giving them a new world by means of her greatest son. She taught banking. The Crusaders needed money,--and money-changers were alive to the advancement of trade. The indefatigable Genoese citizens made loans with other nations, and always kept their eyes on the main chance. By this power of lending they had, for a time, the control

[11]

of the Greek emperor himself.

Miss Brown went on to tell of the great power conferred upon the Bank of St. George of Genoa, of the authority given to it over the colonies, and of its functions in the State. That the bank was a state within a state,--each helping the other.

She said that, after long external and internal struggles, on of Genoa's own citizens went on a new Crusade; but it made Lisbon rise and Genoa fail, but turning the direction of the tides of trade.

After painting the decadence of the city, and the changes that modern times have wrought in it, our Essayist said that: "Genoa did her work well,--she sent out her missionaries. She lost strength, but the world gained economic power."

The second Article of our programme was by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord: "Selections" from her "Drama of Columbus."[^Columbus2]

[^Columbus2]: See notes for the Salon held on October 4th, 1892 for more on Lord's _A Vision Quest_.
She read us the scene where the brother of Columbus is begging him to give up his hopes and his purposes, when they are intercepted by friends and neighbors, coming to congratulate the future great discoverer on his marriage to Felipa,"--the fairest maid in Portugal."  These sing a drinking son of--Good luck to the groom and good luck to the bride,

In the gay Easter tide."

The brother tells our Columbus that love ought to fill his heart too full to have room for dreams. But he is answered that "Felipa

[12]

is as good as she is fair,--that love itself bids him haste away on his voyage."

We were then given the scene in the church, where Felipa comes to pray for him, and tries to dissuade him from wedding with magic, in seeking to have his horoscope cast by a Mohammedan sorceress. Of this fortune-teller, Columbus contended, that if she is not of heaven, she is not of hell either. He refers to the wise men who saw and followed the Star of Bethlehem. And so, saying: "Pray for me!" he goes to know his fate.

Then we had the interview between Columbus and the sorceress; begun, and continued, with mutual distrust, until she sees a nimbus around his head, and hails him as a man chosen by Allah,--one who can teach seers,--and then she goes on to foreshadow his great and strange future.

We were told of gay songs and dances;--then of the interview of Columbus with King John of Portugal; and with the junta chosen by the king to pass judgment on his pretensions. Then of their discussion of the powers and rights of Church and State. Then of the despondency of Columbus, and the support and consolations of Felipa,--the seaman's daughter; followed by an animated description of a contest with bandits in the woods.

Probably we all feel, the more the discoverer of our continent is describer to us, that--as has been said,--"of he was not

[13]

a saint, he was a hero."

The third Article of our programme was the "Psalm of the West,"  by Sidney Lanier. It was to have been read by our President, Mrs. Turnbull; but, owing to her much regretted absence, and the lateness of the hour, it was omitted.

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] next spoke of our custom,--more frequently observed in the early days of our Club than of late,--of having some discussions and questions upon the papers read to us. She wished to ask Miss Brown:--when the Bank of Genoa was given judicial functions? In the answer it was stated that the Bank was first given control over all its own affairs; afterwards over colonial affairs; and, in 1407, judicial rights over debts due to it.

Miss Brown also spoke, in the course of discussion, of the rules regulating what was called "Treasure Trove",--or the finding of hidden treasures in the earth; and the rights of monarchs and states in such discoveries.

After further discussion participated in by Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait and others, the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)