---
title: 1893-01-10 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-10-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 2nd Meeting of 1893. [Jan. 10, 1893]

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met January 10th, 1893 at 2:15 P.M., at No. 12 East Centre Street, for the consideration of names proposed

[3]

for membership, in pursuance of adjournment.

The Recording Secretary being absent the Notes were kindly taken by the Corresponding Secretary.

Seven members were present.

The First Vice President presided.

Mrs. Johnson proposed that hereafter all new names must be submitted for consideration two weeks or more before the date appointed for the decision of the Board. This was approved.

Miss Haughton then read the "Requirements of Members", from Article IV of the Constitution.

The following names were then submitted to the Board, and approved:

Miss [Pauline Covington] Rust. Proposed by Mrs. Tutwiler.
Seconded by Mrs. Turnbull.

Miss Comins. Proposed by Mrs. Bullock.
Seconded by Miss Haughton.

Miss Cenas. Proposed by Miss Haughton.
Seconded by Miss Grace.

Miss Wilmer. Proposed by Miss Haughton.
Seconded by Miss Cloud.

Miss Geroge. Proposed by Miss Malloy.
Seconded by Miss Haughton.

Mrs. Morris. Proposed by Miss Haughton.
Seconded by Mrs. Whiteock.

Mrs. Frederick [Florence McIntyre] Tyson. Proposed by Mrs. Haman.
Seconded by Miss Grace.

[4]

The Board of Management then decided to extend Honoarary Membership in the Club to Mrs. Florence Earle Coates the author. Her name was proposed by Mrs. Turnbull, and approved.

Miss Haughton then showed samples of linings for window curtains in the new rooms we are expecting to soon occupy; and also asked an appropriation for buying a tea-kettle.

The meeting adjourned.


<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)