---
title: 1893-01-03 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-03-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 70th Meeting. [Jan. 3, 1893]

Notes kindly taken by the Corresponding Secretary.[^Corresponding]

[^Corresponding]: Club records do not indicate who held the position of Corresponding Secretary during the 1892-1893 season.

The seventieth Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club, of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon January 3rd, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

[20]

In the absence of the President the First Vice-President [Louise Courtauld Osburne Haughton] presided.

The Corresponding Secretary filling temporarily the place of the Recording Secretary, no minutes were read.

Announcement was made that the semi-annual meeting of the Executive Board for the consideration of names presented for membership was postponed until January 10th;--no names having been officially received.

It was moved by Miss [Mary F.] Grace that a resolution of sympathy be passed and tendered to the Recording Secretary in her bereavement. This resolution, seconded by Mrs. [Caroline S.] Eames, and carried, was duly formed and forwarded by the Corresponding Secretary.

Miss [Edith] Duer then moved that an alteration be made in Article IV, Section 5 of the Constitution, and Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin suggested an amendment.[^IV]

[^IV]: This section of the Club constitution appears to have involved the methods by which new members would be voted in.

This matter was carried over to be proposed and voted upon at the next meeting of the Club on January 10th.

The first literary article of the programme was by Mrs. [Morton Wortham] Sloan. It gave a careful and artistic account of "The Influence of Egyptian and Assyrian Art upon the Greeks."  It treated of the Country's geographical disadvantages, physical limitations, and necessary conservatism, evolving eventual[l]y that marvellous sculpture which is still young today to its wisest interpreters.

The second paper was presented by Miss [Alice] Morison, and was a thorough and interesting description of "The Temple of Mike Apteros, and its relation to Greek Architecture."

[21]

It told of the small by exquisite Temple erected on the Hill of the Acropolis in 470 B.C., and named so significantly by Cimon after the triumphs of the Athenians over the Persians, Nike Apteros--Wingless Victory--; and of the evolution of Athenian Architecture from that date until the demolition of this Temple in 1687, when Athens was besieged by the Venetians.

Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown then reported a gift of twenty books from Murphy and Company, publishers, through the interest of Miss [Mary F.] Grace.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)