---
title: 1893-01-10 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-10-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 71st Meeting. [Jan. 10, 1893]

Notes by the Corresponding Secretary.

The seventy first Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 10th, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The First Vice President presided.

In behalf of the World's Columbian Fair Commission, Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin then asked for information concerning Maryland Authors.

The Librarian reported books received--from Dr. [Charles Carroll] Bombaugh,--Mrs. J. E. Owens,--Miss Gibbes,--and Mrs. Chrichton.[^MD]

[^MD]: Charles Carroll Bombaugh (1828-1906) was a surgeon during the Civil War, editor of the _Baltimore Underwriter_ journal, Vice President of the American Academy of Medicin (1882-1894), and author of _Gleanings for the Curious, The Book of Blunders, “First Things, Literature of Kissing, Stragagems and Conspiracies to Defraud Life Insurance Companies_, and _The Foes of the Household_ (John Russel Quinan, _Medical Annals of Baltimore from 1608to 1880..._ [Baltimore: Press of Isaac Friedenwald], 239). "Mrs. Chrichton" may be a reference to Antoinette K. Crichton, author of five books included in the Woman's Library at the World Columbian Exposition (these appear to have been books for children, with titles such as _Little Nettie's Journey_,  _Mother Goose in New Feathers_, and _A Very Little Story for Very Little Children_). The identities of Mrs. J. E. Owens and Miss Gibbes are not known.

Miss [Edith] Duer then quoted Article IV, Section 5 of the Constitution,[^LCn4] and made a motion that the last paragraph of that Section be cut off, or, if not, be changed to read as follows:

"They must also state that they believe such a person to be capable of fulfilling the required duties."

[^LCn4]: Crane's note: "On Members"

[22]

Discussion followed, and a motion was made and carried that the matter should be referred to a Committee; said Committee to be appointed by the President, and to make its report at the meeting of the Club on January 24th.

Miss [Louise] Malloy then read an excellent paper on "American Newspapers." It treated the "Press" from different points of view;--as a public power,--a political factor,--and as the literal voice of the people;--spoke of its often unpardonable license, but oftener unexpected reticence and tact. Miss Malloy spoke of journalism as a field for women; and also as a literary training school for more than one man who had entered it unequipped by education.

Miss [Mary F.] Grace then read the "Story of a Lost Trunk," written by Miss Alice Brookes, whose pen-name "Alix" is found over so many charming sketches.[^Alix]

[^Alix]: The books _Day Dreams_ and _Words for Mothers_ by "Alix" were included in the Maryland section of the Woman's Library of the World Columbian Exposition.

The names were then read of those who had been approved by the Board of Management for Membership; also the name of Mrs. Florence Earle Coates,[^Coates] to whom Honorary Membership had been extended by the Board of Management.

[^Coates]: Florence Van Leer Earle Nicholson Coates (1850-1927) was a prolific poet published widely in the _Atlantic Monthly_, _Century_, and other highly regarded magazines. She was a lifelong resident of Philadelphia.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)