---
title: 1893-05-02 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-02-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[26]

## Board of Management Meeting. May 2nd, 1893.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday, May 2nd, in their Committee Room in the building at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. The whole twelve members of the Board were present at this meeting. Mrs. Turnbull, the President was in the chair.

The President called attention to the business appointed to the Constitution of the Club to be transacted each year at the meeting of the first Tuesday in May; namely,--the election of new members to the Club.

Mrs. Johnson spoke of the necessity of careful consideration in this matter of electing new members. She also reminded us of the decision, by legal authority, that a meeting held on the second Tuesday in May, in pursuance of adjournment from the first Tuesday in that month, could hold or complete the election for new members. She spoke of the propriety of having a meeting of

[27]

the Board of Management, especially for the consideration of new names presented to us, before the meeting in which the vote is taken on them. Some little discussion arose on this point.

Later in the meeting the question arose whether applicants for membership who seemed to be seeking the advancement of their own personal interest in joining the Club, were to be considered desirable members. Some of the members of the Board,--while of course condemning any unworthy use of the advantages of our membership,--still thought, that if really literary women, unobjectionable in themselves, will give us good literary work, we can afford not to inquire too strictly unto their motives for wishing to enter our Club.

The President read to us the Articles of our Constitution on the admission of new members.

After some further interchange of views, Miss Lzold moved that we should abide by the letter of the Constitution, as nearly as possible this afternoon; and, if we found ourselves unable to finish all the business before us, we could adjourn un-

[28]

til next Tuesday. Mrs. Colvin seconded this motion,--and it was carried.

Nine names were proposed, of whom Miss Mary D. [Dorsey] Davis,--Mrs. Bertha Hall Aherns,--Mrs. R. K. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley and Mrs. Sidney [Clara B. Newman] Turner received all the votes of the Board; Mrs. R. M. Wiley and Mrs. Henry J. Dudesluys received no negative votes; these names--two for resident and one for non-resident membership received the required number of votes of the Board; and the whole number of nine names were ordered to be read for the approval of the Club at the public meeting about to be held. The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)