---
title: 1893-01-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-17-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 72nd Meeting. [Jan. 17, 1893]

The seventy second meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 17th, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President called the meeting to order.

[23]

The Recording Secretary then read the Minutes of the previous meeting on January 10th, written by the Corresponding Secretary.

The President announced that some complimentary tickets had been sent to the Club for an entertainment to be given by the St. Agnes Reading Circle of St. Ignatius's Church on St. Agnes's Eve, January 19th.

A letter was presented by Mrs. [Gertrude Pierce] Easby conveying an Invitation from the New Century Club of Wilmington, Delaware to the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, to a Literary Entertainment and Reception, on the occasion of the Opening of the new Club House of the New Century Club on the 31st of January.

They hope to have present two or more representatives from each of ten or twelve literary clubs. It was proposed that Mrs. Easby, who is a member of our Club, and also one of the Club in Wilmington, and at least one other one of our members, should accept this polite invitation, as the delegates or representatives of our Club. Various names were proposed, including those of Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman, Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin and Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson. Mrs. Johnson agreed to accept the invitation; and it was expected that Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown would also be able to do so.

The first Article on our Programme was by Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall on "The American Mounds and Mound-Builders." It was finely illustrated by drawings and maps. Mrs. Wrenshall had herself seen the mounds lately opened at Macon, Georgia.

She spoke of prehistoric remains in the old world, and in  the new one; of the struggle

[24]

of the old life of this world with the great despoiler, Time; of sepulchral monuments in, and perhaps before, the days of Homer. She then went on to describe particularly those found in our own country with trees centuries old growing upon them,--particularly one in Georgia with a live oak ten feet in diameter growing out of it. She spoke of their uses as tombs, altars and fortresses; of their regularity in construction; of the evidence of their having been in many instances well supplied with water, not only when they were places of refuge or defence, but also when they have been consecrated to religious services,--ablutions being common to the rites of many religions. Some had round towers, and wells with what were, apparently, stone covers for them.

She told us of mounds in different parts of our country, from Lake Erie to the Gulf of Mexico, and of the remarkable features of all of them; and the--if possible--more remarkable remains--human--, and of human interest--found in them;--the skeletons with flattened heads, the copper or silver or bone implements or ornaments, among these last the cross cut out of copper, but not like the cross familiar in our day, far more as the ancient Hindoo, Phoenician or Greek represented it, with some mystic meanings of their own.

Mrs. Wrenshall spoke of the traces of the worship of the Sun-God also. Then of the likeness and the unlikeness of the old mounds to the Indian works of today. Then of the resemblance between the mounds of Ohio and the tombs lately opened at Mycale;

[25]

--"as if," she said, "the ancient Greek had been waiting for his American brother to reveal with him the secret trophies of the long forgotten past."

The next Article on our Programme was by Mrs. Griffin, under whose direction, as Chairman of the "Committee on Studies in American History" the afternoon's literary entertainment was given.

Mrs. Griffin's Article was on "The Pre-Historic Explorers."  She took up the fascinating story of the Northmen in America,--of Leif Ericsson and Thorfinn and Gudred and Snorro, and many others, bringing before us delightful little stories and sayings, many of them showing research, and not generally found in the ordinary accounts of those old voyagers, who sailed as we may think, to Labrador, Newfoundland and Nova Scotia, as well as to Greenland.

She told of the new convert who went to take Christianity to the heathen, of whom his father was willing to admit that his good deeds offset his bad ones; of the good wife who built a church; of the South-Countryman's pleasure in funding wild grapes; and of the opportune black bull who frightened away the savages. Then how about the year 1135, by the waters of Baffin's Bay, the services of Ascension week were celebrated with peculiar solemnity. How the old Vikings' ships were stronger than those of Columbus, and how sometimes a hero was buried in the ship he had loved to sail in. How the ships were made with plates like shingles, with seats for rowers, not built in

[26]

rude or awkward fashion, but with what a sailor would call beautiful lines.

She thought those old sailors were honest story-tellers,--though the savages they told of were not like any savages then known to Europeans. She spoke of the good old priests, who wrote good vigorous Latin; of old Ari, descended from Snorro, as was the sculptor Thorwaldsen also. But we have only an abridgement of the stories Ari told for us.[^Ari]

[^Ari]: Ari Thorgilsson the Learned (1067-1148) was an Icelandic chieftain, priest, and vernacular historian; Snorro Sturluson (1179-1241) followed, rather than preceded, Thorgilsson and is the author of or compiler of portions of the _Prose Edda_. Bertel Thorvaldsen (1797-1838) was a Danish sculptor active in Italy in the early nineteenth century. In her paper, Griffin appears to be summarizing the _Islendingabók_, also known in Latin as the _Libellus Islandorum_ and in English as _The Book of the Icelanders_.

She told of the Bishops of Greenland and of Vinland as far back as the year 1191; of the old Cathedral in Greenland, now in ruins, where the creed was wont to be chanted, and processions of priests walked up the aisle, with their vestments and censers.

She spoke of the old descriptions of what we know to be the coast of North America; and told of one of the Chroniclers, who in 1450 gave a good account of "How one can go from Greenland to Markland and Vinland,--which, perhaps, is a part of Africa."

She described a feast of the old Norsemen,--ending with the wonderful song of a woman.

Mrs. Griffin then gave us a "Sea Rover's Song," with some curious allusions and symbolisms belonging to the Christianity of that old time,--and of some later times also. We listened, and seemed almost to see the--

[poetry]
--"Grim Vikings in their rapture".
[/poetry]

--but not so much--

[poetry]
"In the Sea-fight and the capture",
[/poetry]

as in the nobler and better work they did in their day and generation.

The two articles of this meeting interested us so much, especially as relating to the early days of our own country, that a proposal was made, and agreed to, to make the discussion of both of them the literary entertainment of our next Salon on January 31st.

The meeting adjourned.

Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)