---
title: 1893-01-31 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-31-salon.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[36]

## 21st Salon [Tuesday, January 31st, 1893]

The twenty first Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 31st, 1893.

The Recording Secretary being again absent, and wishing to make some record of the meeting for future reference, can only copy the newspaper report of the next morning, and add a few notes kindly given by the Corresponding Secretary.

### Report in the Baltimore “Sun” of February 1st, 1893. 

“The Salon or afternoon tea of the Woman’s Literary Club yesterday was marked by an unusually large attendance, nearly all the members being present, besides a large number of strangers who are well known in literary work. The only paper read was a sketch by Mrs. Marguerite

[37]

E. Easter, entitled “The Meeting of the Marylanders at Front Royal, May 23rd, 1862.” Mrs. Easter lives during a part of the year in the vicinity of Front Royal, and her descriptions were drawn from personal visits to the battle-field. The incidents related of the battle were told to her by survivors of the conflict. An interesting part of the paper was the description of the leaders on each side. The Club has received 133 books for its library.”

### Notes

The Library Record was open for the first time.

Letters were read from Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller and Mrs. Florence Earle Coates,-- the latter expressing her pleasure at having been elected an Honorary Member of the Club.

An Invitation was received from the “Lend a Hand Club[“] of Mt. Washington to our members, for February 1st;-- Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller being the guest of honor on that day. The names of the seven new members voted by the Board of Management on January 10th, and read to the Club on the same day was again read. These names were: Miss Cewas,-- Miss [Lucy] Comins,-- Miss [Imogen] George,-- Mrs. [Thomas] Morris,-- Miss [Pauline Covington] Rust,-- Mrs. Frederick [Florence McIntyre] Tyson,-- and Miss [Henrietta] Wilmer. After refreshments and conversation, the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)