---
title: 1893-06-09 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-06-09-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[35]

## New Board.[^note] 
## Special Board of Management Meeting. June 9th, 1893.

[^note]: This line of the heading is written in pencil, seemingly later.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday afternoon, June 9th, 1893, in their Committee Room at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets.

Miss Brent, the President was in the chair; and seven other members attended the meeting;--Miss Haughton, Miss Crane, Miss Brown, Miss Szold, Miss Grace, Mrs. Dammann and Mrs. Bullock,--the last named having been detained, arrived a short time before the adjournment.

The President announced that we had met for the purpose of considering the question of paying for the frame of the portrait of our retiring President, Mrs. Turnbull;--the portrait itself having been presented to the Club by our fellow member, Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, whose work it was.

Comments and conversation followed; and a friendly discussion, with regard to the importance of setting--or not setting--precedents for incurring unusual expenses.

The price asked for the frame was $50, (fifty dollars.) ($42)[^note2]

[^note2]: Revised amount written in pencil, probably at a later date.

It was finally voted that, on this

[36]

occasion, it being understood that Miss Adams had already paid for the frame, expecting to be reimbursed by the Club, the money should be paid out of the treasury; and the Treasurer was so instructed.*[^note3]

[^note3]: Note added later: "These statements were mistaken. The price was $42.00; and it was paid by the Treasurer to the Picture-Frame Dealer."

Further discussion and interchange of views, on the expenses and the material and household affairs of the Club, occupied some time, until the meeting adjourned.

[END OF SEASON]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)