---
title: 1893-04-04 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-04-04-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[83]

## 80th Meeting. [April 4, 1893]

The eightieth Meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, April 4th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, was in the chair.

The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the two meetings on March 14th and March 21st.

It was announced that the notes of the meeting on March 28th, which was a Salon, had, in absence of the Secretary, been kindly taken by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, one of our Vice Presidents, who would read to us her Report later in the evening.

The Librarian announced the gift of some books to the Club;--including “Val Maria,” by our own President, Mrs. Turnbull,--three volumes by Mrs. Chrichton,[^Chr] --and “France in the Nineteenth Century,” by our fellow member, Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer.

[^Chr]: See note re: Antoinette Crichton in minutes for the Jan. 10, 1893 meeting.

The first Article of our programme was the reading by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord of two poems of her own,--Sonnets,--called “June” and “September.” The first told us of a lovely day in June, full of fragrance and bloom, green below and colored by bright flowers around us; when all nature seems full of ecstatic prayer to the One who has made such beauty, and of thankfulness for God’s perfect work. In the second, we feel that, if we had last all count of months and days, we should know by the sudden flush of flowers and air and sky that September reigns with ripened beauty, and thoughts of coming rest.

The next article was given by Miss [Mary F.] Grace and was her own Translation from the French Sully Prud’homme, of a Poem, called; “The Hour of Death.” He asks of those who shall be neat him in the hour to speak no word to him,--he is tired, and can not understand

[84]

but, to soothe and bless him, only,--give him harmony. He tells them to seek his old nurse, that she mat sing some old time song of long ago. She will be found,--for the peasant poor live long,--and he is one of those whose time is short, in this vale of tears; and she loves him still. When his heart shall break, let no one speak a word to him,--but give him—melody.

The next article was a poem by Mrs. Turnbull; “A Birthday Invocation.” It is to one, there, where they know not time, not age,--where youth is always young,--where they know not tears. Can we pierce the blue?—or see the veil uplifted? Can they stoop to us? The all perfect Love has garnered them;--and we, give them the old time greetings,--and we know they love us with holy love,--as our souls grow towards heaven.

The next article was by Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett,--a poem called; “A Difficult Lover.” It tells of one who knows her lover loves her not;--poverty is a poor feint,--

[poetry]
[indented line] “—lack of gold needs not protest,
True lovers’ golf stands manifest.”
[/poetry]

Mrs. Turnbull then read Miss Reese’s poem, “The Shepherd comes, the Shepherd goes”;-- telling of the pastures where cooling water flows, where none can go at will, and of one who had not long to wait for his Good Shepherd’s coming.

Mrs. Sioussat was then requested to read her Report of the Salon of March 28th. The only literary exercise of that meeting was a Paper contributed by Miss de Graffenried, a guest of the Club, who is a special agent of the Government in the Department of Labor. Her subject was, “The Housing of the Poor;”—in some [senses], a difficult matter to treat, but one of which Mrs.

[85]

Sioussat, as well as Miss de Graffenried, has made a special study. The excellent report of this interesting paper was received with applause.

Our programme had promised us three contributions by Miss [Maria H.] Middleton; but that lady was unable to be present, on account of the death of her niece; and the pleasure of hearing her read had to be deferred.

Our next article was by Miss [Jane] Zacharias. She gave us first; “A Song of Spring;”—telling us that when it seems too early for field flowers or bright colors in the groves, the cloistered violet betrays itself by perfume, the cowslip shines forth, and the life darkened by sorrow the spring flowers bring their own message.

Miss Zacharias also gave us a poem called: ”Aloes.” She told us that our Epiphany has its trinity of gifts, like that of the Wise Men;--and like the three Marys, we bring our sweet spices to the Savior’s tomb;--may we find Him risen, in the garden where we seek Him!

We had expected to have an article by Miss [May Garrettson] Evans, but she was unable to come to the meeting until most of our members had left the room; and it seemed unjust to her to allow her article to be read to the very few of her fellow-members then remaining.

The “Literature” of our meeting had certainly taken a wide range of subjects, from the lodgings of the poor,--as Milton says,

[poetry]
[indented line] “--in populous city pent,
Where houses thick, and sewers annoy the air,”--
[/poetry]

--to bright fields and spring flowers,--to Easter joyfulness,--to the harmonies of earth and of heaven.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)