---
title: 1893-03-21 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-03-21-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[72]

## 79th Meeting. [March 21, 1893]

The seventy ninth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon, March 21st, 1893, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets.

The meeting was called to order by the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

Announcement was made that the next meeting would be a “Tea,” probably, without literary exercises.

The subject of our meeting was announced: “The Evolution of Charity,” –-and the guest of the evening was introduced: Mrs. Welsh, who has successfully conducted the Free Kindergarten of the Woman’s Christian Temperance Union. This lady aroused much interest by showing the remarkable work done by the children of the Free Kindergarten.

The Introductory Article of our Programme was given by Mrs. Francis H. [Gertrude Pierce] Easby. She spoke of the natural law of evolution, especially in its relation to human affairs and human progress. We were reminded that what we call

[71]

“love” was not a factor in savage life; but, that as the conditions of life became more complex, more highly organized, and men were crowded together, there arose the contact of the highest-minds among them. Mrs. Easby spoke of the evolution of altruism; of the self-sacrifice taught by Christ, and professed—practiced—by his true followers. She spoke of the times just before the great discovery of Christopher Columbus; and also of the disorders of the 18th century; and reminded us of Victor Hugo’s description, in “Notre Dame de Paris,” of the organizations of the Beggars of the continent of Europe. She referred to the plans of Count Rumford to abolish the beggary;[^Rumford] and to those of the Lord Shaftesbury to abolish child-labor, and other evils. We were told of the public schools of England and of Austria and of those of our own country,-and of the modern free kindergarten.

[^Rumford]: Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford (1753-1814) was an inventor and engineer born in Massachusetts. In addition to his scientific experiments and inventions, including the Rumford stove, in the 1790s he published essays and pamphlets advocating for the effectiveness and efficiency of soup kitchens and workhouses in addressing poverty. Sandra Sherman, _Imagining Poverty: Quantification and the Decline of Paternalism _ (Columbus, OH: The Ohio State University Press, 2001), Chapter 5. 

Mrs. Easby spoke, not without admiration, of the perfect epidemic of charity we saw in Baltimore last winter; but thought that even then many unworthy persons found that they could live without working,--and chose to do so.

She spoke of the great efforts made in modern times to separate the really unfortunate classes from the criminal classes; and for the prevention of evils, moral and physical. Then of the Government aid; and of individual help for individual needs. Our best gift, she told us, was the gift of ourselves,--all of ourselves that we can give,--to our less fortunate fellow creatures;--to keep them from falling into pits, to meet emergencies, to prevent crimes, to purify and ennoble their environment and themselves.

[72]

Our next article was by Mrs. [Margaret] Lake, on “The Kindergarten Movement.” She reminded us of the sentiment that our benevolence should be “formative, rather than reformative; that we should overcome evil with good; and show our belief in the fatherhood of God. In her opinion, the grandest evolution of Charity was the “Kindergarten Movement.” She spoke of the beginning of this movement in Europe, and of its rapid development in the old world, and in the new one; although during the life of Froebel its originator, Government aid was invoked to suppress it. But, she said, the fanatics of one age are often the apostles of the next one;--and the movement is now fostered where it was formerly opposed.

She referred to the very large number of kindergartens in America; and thought that the outlook was most promising for their being generally incorporated into our public school system, she spoke of the International Kindergarten Union; and also of the large amount of space devoted to this subject in the press,--especially in the magazines of our own day. She gave us an account of many of the Free Kindergartens all over our own country; and told of the distinguished patrons of this work among us, and also of the self-sacrificing women who are engaged in it.

We were interested in Mrs. Lake’s description of the excellent work of these free kindergartens; especially for poor children too young to be admitted into the public schools, who, without this good work, would spend their days in the streets—

[73]

generally the bad streets.

After telling of the results of this movement in Baltimore, Mrs. Lake quoted some eloquent words of George William Curtis, spoken at his last appearance in public,--in the education that fits little children for the great school of life, and for the kingdom of God.

The attention of the Club was called to a general public meeting, to be held on the next Thursday evening, for the benefit of the Free Kindergarten Movement in Baltimore.

Mrs. Turnbull, our President, gave us, by request, an interesting account of a paper, published for two years, by one of her children, for the benefit of the free kindergarten conducted by Mrs. Welsh. This paper was entirely the work of of the young editor, printer and publisher, all in one; --while he was between the ages of twelve and fourteen. When the family were in the city, he would go to a closed country house, because his press was there, and spend the day alone, taking his lunch with him,-- that the regular numbers might reach his subscribers at the right time.

We were also shown a photograph of a store-house, built by two children of the same family, between the ages of eleven and thirteen, entirety with their own hands.

The next Article on our programme was by Miss Eliza Ridgely, and was; “A Glimpse at College Settlements.” She described a visit she had made to the College Settlement in Philadelphia, in St. Mary Street, once a dreadful

[74]

neighborhood, and not quite immaculate now,--but much changed since this new establishment was begun in April, 1892.

Miss Ridgely said that when she herself, on the above-mentioned visit, walked in this street her hat and feather were a target for snow-balls, of the children, who have not yet learned how to amuse themselves.

What had been a tenement house had been bought by the “Settlement;” the wood-work torn away, and scrubbed with concentrated lye and corrosive sublimate;-- and now the ladies who stay there make friends in the neighborhood. Not far away is the Young Men’s College Settlement.

Miss Ridgely told us of what she saw;-- of the pleasant rooms; the bright halls; the furniture and flowers; the neat, wholesome meals;--for all of which working women pay a very small price; and other women—in preference, college graduates—pay more,-- but a small price still. The ladies, she said, had never been obliged to ring their bells to summon the police, and have had no great occasion for their services.

She related an anecdote of a sick woman, who asked her physician the amount of his fee, and was told twenty five cents;-- on which she said she would rather pay more; and get well sooner.

After giving us much interesting information, Miss Ridgely spoke of the College Settlement as a new effort to bring classes of humanity together,-- to make democracy possible,--to de-

[75]

velope a renaissance of early Christianity, --to redress the wrongs of the workers,--to cure, so far as possible, the visible sores of the body politic.

After speaking of the libraries, and the readings, given to make these poor people acquainted with the world’s greatest moral heroes, she said. It really seems that the best educated of us can help the most ignorant, the refined can best help the coarse, the highest can best elevate the lowest, and that there is a true socialism very near to the life of Christ Himself.

Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud, the Librarian, then announced the gift to the club of five volumes of the Works of the late Mrs. Almira Lincoln Phelps,[^Phelps] from her children—Judge Phelps, Miss Phelps, and Mrs. O’Brien. They had hoped to present all of their mother’s Works; but some of them were out of print, and inaccessible at present.

[^Phelps]: Born in Connecticut in 1793, Almira Hart Lincoln Phelps (1793-1884) was a lifelong educator. She taught science classes at the Troy Female Seminary in New York (where her sister, Emma Hart Willard, served as principal) and authored several textbooks which entered widespread use. In 1841, she was appointed principal of the Patapsco Female Institute in what is now Ellicott City, MD, west of Baltimore in Howard County, a position she held until 1856. In addition to her science books, she authored two novels, _Caroline Westerly_ (1833) and _Ida Norman_ (1850). She resided in Baltimore until her death in 1884.

The Club was also presented, by our fellow-member, Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, with a Photograph she had secured in Venice, representing “The Last Home of Robert Browning.[”] The Meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)