---
title: 1893-03-14 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-03-14-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 78th Meeting [March 14, 1893]

The seventy eighth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, March 14th, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President called the meeting to order. The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of March 7th,--which were adopted.

The President reminded us of the arrangement made for this meeting and the next following one to begin at three, instead of half past three o’clock, and to close earlier than usual;--to give time for many of our members to attend the lectures of Professor [Robert Yelverton] Tyrrell on Latin Poetry. She spoke of the great regret caused by the illness of Professor Tyrrell, which had made necessary a postponement of these lectures; but said that he hoped to be well enough to begin them on Thursday.

[64]

She then announced that our Committee on Fiction held its meetings every Friday morning in the Committee room; which meetings were, in the absence of Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock to be under the direction of Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett.

The announcement was also made of a Reading to be given by Mrs. Kate Douglas Wiggin, at Hazazar’s Hall, for the benefit of Grace Church Free Kindergarten.[^Hazazar] Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull also spoke of the Free Kindergarten system, and of the efforts to introduce it into the public schools.

[^Hazazar]: Kate Douglas Wiggin (1856-1923) was the author of the classic children's novel _Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm_ (1903). During this period, she was a well-known educator as well as author, having established dozens of free kindergarten schools in San Francisco. Hazazar's Hall was also located at the corners of Franklin and Cathedral Streets; both buildings were torn down in the late 1920s to make way for the Enoch Pratt Free Library. The school at Grace & St. Peter's Church, just north of the Academy of Science building at the corner of Park Ave. and Monument St., closed in 2020.

An announcement was made of a Musical Recital at the house of Miss Bond.

We were informed that our next meeting was to be under the direction of the Committee on the Evolution of Charity,-- of which Mrs. James [Margaret] Lake is Chairman.

The President then said that we had as a visitor this evening, Mrs. Tyrrell, the wife of Professor Tyrrell of Dublin; and that, at the close of the meeting, the members would have the pleasure of being presented to her.

The President also reminded us that the next meeting of the Board of Management for the election of new members of the Club will take place on the first Tuesday in May; and that those who wish to propose names for membership may find it well to present them beforehand to any member of the Executive Board:-- a month’s consideration being not too much to be given to this subject of new members, who shall help and further the work for which our Club has its existence.

The Librarian announced that after the last meeting, three books had been presented to the Club:-- “The Law of Periodicity”, by the Reverend Dr. Leakin,-- and the “Early History of Maryland” and “Church Life in Maryland”, the latter two works by the Reverend Theodore G. Gambrill.

The first Article on our Programme was by Mrs. Fabian Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], and was on “The Sensation of Color.” She sketched in a few words the present state of scientific premises and conclusions-- or hypotheses-- on this very interesting subject; and gave us a clear explanation and critical examination of the theories of [Hermann von] Helmhol[t]z and [Ewald] Hering and others.[^HH]

[^HH]: The Hering-Helmholtz controversy involved color perception, and whether the eye perceived colors based on the combination or opposition of colors. Scientists have since determined that colors are perceived both ways.

She spoke of the resemblances of sound and light, and of the present apparent limitations of these analogies;- and described some of the scientific experiments illustrating her subject.

Mrs. Franklin advanced to a new theory of her own, differing from those mentioned,-- and supported it with skill and ability.

She spoke of the development of the sensation of color in animals, and of the high sense of color possessed by birds.

She told us that the power to distinguish brightness or darkness, or black and white, seems to precede, in the human infant’s consciousness, the power to distinguish colors. She spoke of color-blindness; and told of the contribution to science which the people who are color-blind in one eye have only been able to make.

[66]

Mrs. Franklin’s essay aroused the interest of her fellow members, as was shown by their questions and comments. Among other things, Mrs. Turnbull spoke of the investigations of Professor [Richard Lynch] Garner into the language of monkeys, and his assertion that they have a word representing the idea of light, or brightness.

We could recall the investigations made some years ago into the color systems of early writers; as for instance, into that of the author, or authors, of Beowulf, the old English Epic; and the apparently very limited acquaintance with color, or rather with colors, possessed by him or by them, who first wrote or recited the old story.

The President announced that the next article called for by our programme was one by Miss [Henrietta] Szold, whose writing always interested us, but that she was sorry to say that she had just received a note from Miss Szold, stating that her sister was ill, and that she could not leave her;-- and that the article we had hoped to hear her read would have to be again deferred. She proposed to read in place an article on “The Spurious Letters of General Washington”;-- but had concluded that it would be well to have the third article on the programme read first; and, if there should be time left, to let the substituted article follow it.

Miss Corinne Jackson then read a pleasant, graceful Poem, or poetical Allegory,--of her own: “Love and Life;-- the Life that comes and goes, and the Love that can lend Life a little grace.

Life walks in her garden, among the flowers

[67]

and fruits, like them young and fair, and sings like the birds, without either memory or hope. Then the voice of Love calls Life to come with him, telling her that darkness and ugliness and sin will all disappear where Love and Life walk together. But she says the garden is her world; that ugliness and sin are unknown to her.

Again, Life is in her garden, but no longer free and glad. Again, she hears Love’s voice calling her, but she fears his strange new world; and asks Love to come into her garden. But he answers that Love cannot live in Life’s playground. Life must give herself to Love, Love must guide her, and no harm can come near her. Yet she fears too much.

Again, she is in her garden, and Hope is with her. Some flowers she plucks and places in her bosom, and they become the flowers of eternity. Some she touches, and they are the flowers of truth. Some flowers she has kissed, and they become the flowers of sympathy.

When Love comes again, they leave the garden together, and she has the flowers of eternity in her bosom, to drop wherever they find sickness or sorrow or sin. She is to make the world more beautiful everywhere, but she has left her playground forever. Ignorance and selfishness would soon have destroyed it.

Still the flowers of truth and sympathy are with her, “and eternity itself seems finite, when Love and Life dwell together.”

Mrs. Turnbull then reminded us that everything relating to General Washington has interest for us. She read to us from a work by Mrs. Pitkin, a lady eighty years old, a member of the Mount

[68]

Vernon Society of Detroit, Michigan, and account of met with a rare and curious volume in a public library; purporting to be “Letters from General George Washington,” to members of his own family, particularly to his step-son, John Burke Custis, and to his cousin Lund Washington, who had charge of his estate;-- written from New York, in the year 1776, referring to his personal affairs also.

In the letters General Washington is made to write of his fears and forbodings of the defeat and disgrace overshadowing the American Colonies; which he hopes not to survive. The Revolutionists have, it is said, overshot their mark; they will not succeed, and do not deserve to succeed. That he does not wish for independence, and aims only a peace; that we can not do without England, and she will not do without us; that good terms may be gained now; that he loves his king; and much more of the same sort;-- mingled with directions about the Mount Vernon estate, speaking of the negroes by their names, and desiring Mrs. Washington not to come to headquarters at the time of writing, &c.

Mrs. Pitkin says that, being astonished at what she read, she turned to the Preface. She there found that these professed to be intercepted letters;-- that Washington’s body servant, “Billy,” was said to have been captured at Fort Lee, in company with a portmanteau belonging to his master, containing private documents, which had been sent to England, pub-

[69]

lished, and brought back to America.

Washington did have a servant named William and these letters seem to have been cunningly devised by some one apparently well acquainted with his affairs, to discredit his patriotism and honor, and to injure the American cause, at a time of great depression and bad fortune.

Washington took, we were told, no notice of the publication, but treated the whole affair with silent contempt.

The letters were revived nearly twenty years afterwards, in 1795, during Washington’s second term as President, at the time of the debates on the treaty with England; and efforts were made to injure and misrepresent him at that time also. But Washington never answered newspaper attacks,-- and the like.

On the last day of his holding the office of President, he wrote a letter to the Secretary of State, in which, after alluding to his retirement that day from public life, and to the-- to him-- more serious event that must soon follow, he makes the solemn declaration, that he never saw or heard of these letters till he saw them in print; that his servant had never been one moment in the power of the enemy; that no piece of his baggage had ever been captured;-- that the whole thing was a base forgery.

We were not told whether the Rivington who published these forged letters was or was not the same Rivington who published “The Royal Gazette,” the Tory newspaper in New York;-- and whom our early American poet Philip Freneau accused of applying to the Prince of Darkness, for--

[poetry]
“-- some further supplies,

[70]

For a set of new types, and a set of new lies.”
[/poetry]

Certainly Washington’s sole part in the affair was characteristic, and worthy of his courage and fortitude.

The meeting adjourned;-- and the members of the Club were presented to Mrs. Tyrrell, and passed some little time in pleasant conversation.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)