---
title: 1893-05-30 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-30-salon.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 25th Salon. [May 20, 1893]

The twenty fifth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, being the last meeting of the season of 1892 and 1893 took place on Tuesday, May 30th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. It was also the anniversary occasion of the year; and was, as previously arranged, under the direction of the officers for the year just closing.

Our first--and, for three years, only--President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, called the meeting to order.

The Recording Secretary read her Report of the year’s literary work of the Club; which was, of course, compiled from her minutes of the meetings of the year, and recollections of specially interesting meetings.

[130]

The Librarian, Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud, then gave us her Report, of our library; which in November 1892, numbered sixty three volumes, and now numbered two hundred. After enumerating the books presented during the year, she spoke of our gratitude to our members, and to our other friends, who have increased the number of books in our library.

As our Librarian has also been our Corresponding Secretary for the past year, a vote of thanks for all her work was moved by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, and seconded by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter. In this motion the Recording Secretary was also included, and it was passed without opposition.

Mrs. Turnbull then gave us the President’s Anniversary Address, which was also her farewell to us, before leaving for a long visit to Europe. Our retiring President spoke to us of our gathering to celebrate our third Anniversary. There has been a great advance in our material progress,--a thing which might be able to help, or hinder, our mental or spiritual progress. But we trust that the progress and success near to our hearts has been great also, that our work has taken a higher intellectual rank as time has gone on, and that into the domain which is higher still than that of intellect, we have gone, with larger views and nobler ideals.

Mrs. Turnbull went on to speak of the recognition our work has received outside of our own circle. She spoke of her strong faith in the methods that have so far been pursued in our efforts to encourage “right and serious views of life and

[131]

literature"; and deprecated some proposed changes in these methods; as, for instance, the more frequent introduction into our social meetings of men as well as women. She thought that our work should be distinctly woman’s work, in the few hours we give to it, and to each other in our weekly meetings.

She spoke also of our Board of Management, and of the work, especially the detailed or preliminary work, which it seems necessary in all organizations to commit to a selected number or portion of the members.

Mrs. Turnbull reminded us of the critical age we live in; of the power of self-criticism; of our efforts to be artists in words; and of the value of artistic reticence. She spoke of the spiritualization of thought, and of the higher plane of literature that we hope for in the future.

She then spoke of her love for the Club, and for the work we have all done together, and of her regret in leaving it, and us. She thanked us for the genuine appreciation of her motives, and for the co-operation she had received in her three years association with us;--and commended to our consideration and support our newly elected President.

Mrs. Turnbull closed her address with the hope that the work dear to her heart, as to ours also, would have in the future a real, spiritual influence, harmonious, restful, and inspired.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton then spoke earnestly and enthusiastically of all that Mrs. Turnbull has done for the Club;--of her wise suggestions and decisions; of her unfailing care and thoughtfulness, which has largely contributed to make the Club a happy

[132]

influence in unlooked for directions and circles.

She then presented to Mrs. Turnbull a badge, bearing the Club colors and motto; which our first President was requested to wear, as a token of grateful from fellow members.

In closing, Miss Haughton said that instead of using our own “good-bye,” we would borrow from our German cousins their “Auf Wiedersehen!”

Mrs. Turnbull, in very few words gave thanks for the tributes she had received, and hoped that all the flowers blossoming here today might continue to give beauty and fragrance to the future for all of us.

Mrs. Easter then read a original poem; speaking of the hush that comes to the woods, and to our Arcadian dreams in them, when the evening shadows are falling, and of the hush that comes to our spirits also, when the shadow is falling of the the absence of one very near to us.

Miss [Maria H.] Middleton next read some lines of her own addressed, “To our Friend, who is going away.[“]  

Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese next gave us one of her happy musical songs, “April in Town,”--and making a graceful reference to the portrait of our retiring President.

Mrs. Turnbull said she felt herself all unworthy, in having no fitting words to give to her friends; but she thought that next to her home she would always hold the Club in her heart. She then spoke of the thanks due to the members of the retiring Board of Management;--also of their unselfish

[133]

work with her during the past year. And in now leaving the Chair, she presented to us the new President, and asked for loyal and generous support for her and her high ideals.

Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent said she wished to fulfill the work of her predecessor; or, at least to do a part of what our first President had done. For herself, she hoped for harmony among old and new friends, in our intellectual and literary work. She remind[ed] us of the saying of the great philosopher, Sir Isaac Newton, “that he seemed to himself like a child playing on the sea-shore, now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than usual, while the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before him. That surely in this Spirit, and remembering always that love is the fulfilling of the law,” we can go on to study the little things--the low tones--of home, or the music of the Spheres. We can go on--

[poetry]
“Till old experience do attain  
To something like prophetic strain.”
[/poetry]

“We know that no life is for itself alone, that each life tells something for eternity.

Miss Brent then thanked our first, and until now, only, President for all that she has done for us.

The announcement was made of the literary Committees of the Club for the coming year.

Notice was given that certificates of membership could be applied for by those members who have not received them.

The rest of the evening was chiefly spent in social intercourse,--and, as the programme said:

[134]

[poetry]
--“Over the Tea-cups,--and over some other good things.  
[/poetry]

Mrs. Graham presented to us some refreshing, “non-alcoholic punch,” which was introduced to the Club by lively verses written and read by Miss [Margaret Moore] Piggot,--singing the praises of Lend-a-Hand Punch.

With many parting regrets, but with happy hopes for the future re-unions the meeting adjourned.[^marginalnote]

[^marginalnote]: Copies from this time made by Miss Hastings of Miss Crane’s Reports.

[END OF SEASON]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)