---
title: 1893-05-09 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-09-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[28] 

## Board of Management Meeting. Tuesday May 9th, 1893.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore held a meeting on Tuesday, May 9th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. There were present at the whole meeting ten members; and, at the adjournment, eleven members of the Board.

Mrs. Turnbull, the President, was in the chair.

[29]

After the reading of the Minutes of the last Board of Management meeting, it was announced that two of the names voted upon on the previous Tuesday as those of new members had been withdrawn by their proposers.

Objection was also made to another name also voted upon at our last Executive meeting; on the ground that neither the proposer nor the endorser of the young lady desiring membership was at all acquainted with her; and that she was virtually proposed to us by one not a member of the Club,--not even a resident of Baltimore. The question was also discussed, of the undesirability of admitting as a member anyone who evidently sought to join our Club for her own profit and advantage. The generally expressed opinion was;--that, while not inquiring with unnecessary minuteness into the motives of really eligible candidates for admission, it is of very great importance to maintain a high standard of membership in the Club.

The Board reconsidered its action on the name of the young lady proposed for non-resident mem-

[30]

bership. A vote was taken, by which her nomination failed to be confirmed.

The six names remaining, which had met with no objections, were ordered to be read at the full meeting of the Club about to be held.

The President then spoke of the Anniversary Meeting mentioned in our By Laws as the occasion on which our president shall make a Report to the Club. At this time also the whole work of the year had been reviewed, and the president had made her Annual Address to the Club. But, she reminded us that no special day for the Anniversary Meeting, nor for this Report and Address had been appointed. It was proposed that the last Salon of the year should be the meeting at which these important exercises should take place. It seemed to be the general opinion that the choice of this meeting was a highly appropriate one.

But the question was raised of its constitutionality, or regularity, as there might at some time be an out-going president and an in-coming one, at the

[31]

last Salon of the year. It was suggested that, as a matter of courtesy, an in-coming president could invite an out-going president to make her report and address on this occasion. Some precedents were quoted, and it was said that the anniversary day really belonged to the year that was passed; also, that we could certainly rely on the courtesy of an in-coming president in this matter.

After some discussion, Mrs. Sioussat moved that our Anniversary Day shall be consolidated with the last Salon of the year. This was seconded by Miss Cloud, carried by eight votes in favor to two against it.

It was proposed to have another Executive Meeting next Tuesday.

The Executive meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)