---
title: 1893-03-28 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-03-28-salon.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 23rd Salon. [March 28, 1893]

The twenty third Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday,

[76]

the 28th of March 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, presided.

The Secretary being absent, the notes were kindly taken, and the Minutes prepared by Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, the second Vice President.

Miss Clare de Graffenried, an agent of the United States Government—Department of Labor—was introduced as the guest of the Club, and the presenter of a paper on “The Housing of the Poor.”[^Graff]

[^Graff]: Mary Clare de Graffenried (1849-1921) was one of the first labor investigators to be employed by the U.S. Department of Labor in 1888. De Graffenried's work focused on women and child laborers and was notable for its use of statistical analysis to undergird the testimony of workers. Her work attained national prominence when she published "The Georgia Cracker in the Cotton Mill" in the February 1891 issue of _Century_ magazine, where several WLCB members also published work.

### Mrs. Sioussat’s Report of Miss de Graffenried’s Paper.

### “The Housing of the Poor.”

Apart from ethical questions, it is important to consider the home conditions of workers, even of the lowest commercial and sordid basis; because the health of a nation is the wealth of a nation.

The cost of supporting in public institutions the afflicted from epidemics of scarlet fever alone—the deaf and the blind—would more than suffice to abate every tenement nuisance in the land.

It is worthy of note that the percentage of death is even less in spots where the germs originate, than at a distance; for then, being independent of contact—or of residence in the infected districts—cholera, typhus fever and other diseases do their deadliest work as a distance from the breeding place, carried in water—by drains—through defective plumbing, and in the air.

The strictest precaution observed on our own premises, may be futile, so long as a single source of contagion exists within a mile or two; and, by a strange irony of fate, the

[77]

occupants of insanitary tenements escape, while other citizens in other quarters are stricken down by epidemics;--the percentage of scarlet fever and diphtheria cases sometimes low, where germs of disease are most abundant,--the superior hardihood of the immigrant working class, and their habituation to noisome dwellings in the old world, making them less susceptible to attach;--but each rotting floor, unflushed closet and deadly drain, in the tenement district, is the active, virulent foe of residents in the handsomest mansions of a city.

The delicately organized bodies of the children of the leisure classes die, or are stricken dumb and blind, while the coarser-fibred Italian or Pole escapes. 

Tenement Reform is therefore necessary for self-preservation;--and this calls for closest attention from those who are in earnest in their investigation spread of disease. Acquaintance with the laws of sanitation does not drop like manna from the skies.

We act in spurts, or bursts of energy,--with too sweeping demands,--not duly considering the inertia of public functionaries, whose aid is indispensable.

We set out on a programme of reform,--so huge, so radical, that the very foundation of the present social order would be wrenched away were our schemes successful,--and then repine, because we accomplish so little.

It is not possible in this nineteenth,

[78]

nor even in the twentieth century, to eradicate poverty; but I do believe that by hammering away at reforms, and persisting in “following” Charles Kingsley’s homely advice:

[poetry]
“Do the thing that’s nearest,
Though it’s dull the whiles,
Helping, when we meet them,
Lame dogs, over stiles;”--
[poetry]

--we may remove some of the causes of poverty in our own midst.

Miss de Graffenried then proceeded to give the comparative statements regarding different cities as to their success or failure to deal with the proper “Housing of the Poor.” She related the astonishment of the good people of Buffalo,-- who found themselves, in spite of their well-meant efforts,-- with a population, by nine thousand souls, more over-crowded than New York; while only twenty per cent of their tenements were in good sanitary condition.

The question has been asked: ”Why trouble ourselves with the condition of these immigrants to whom so largely these conditions are due?” ”Are they not infinitely better off than they ever been at home?”

All things considered, are the occupants of our thickly-peopled tenements better housed than in the purlieus of foreign cities? Whitechapel’s blackest districts consist of shallow houses of two or three stories,--windows back and front,--a gutter running down the middle of the court; and nowhere in the darkest England is there such a place as the street of New York, of which one

[79]

block is known as Sing Sing,--the other as The Penitentiary. The streets even the alleys and courts of London’s poorest quarters are cleaner than many of our thoroughfares. Its population is largely British,--its dirt, native dirt,--while ours is of a mixed variety,--composed of the liveliest foreign germs.

They think their alien element of 60,000—tremendous. Such a problem is petty, compared with our immigrant “policy”;--when New York has over 500,000 German speaking people alone; when, on the ample bosom of Chicago are mothered over 80,000 Bohemians,--70,000 Scandinavians,-- 50,000 Poles; not to mention Italians, Germans, Hungarians, Greeks, Armenians, Russians, Portuguese, Spaniards, Turks and Esquimanx.

Miss de Graffenried gave a glimpse of how Glasgow, Dublin, Manchester and Birmingham had substituted model tenement houses or separate dwellings for the cellar lodging houses;--and predicted that other cities than Buffalo would wake up and find themselves bestridden with a tenement Old Man of the Sea whom they can neither strangle nor shake off.

In the interests of health and decency then, should not the habits of these careless immigrants be regulated?--their license to poison our air and food restrained?

She drew a vivid contrast between the out-door life of the poor in Italy—-where filth becomes innocuous, because so thoroughly oxygenized,--and the sky-scraping tenements, with their unwindowed, dark halls; where, even in summer,

[80]

the one room for so many creatures has a stove, which must blaze, far from morning till night, though the adults grow faint, and the baby gasps for breath.

The first tenement was not built until 1838, but the next twenty years found half the population living more than one family in one house.

She drew sketches of Philadelphia, where, although the tenement system never took hold, when one sees behind the scenes where, in order to economize space, they build so that a blank wall forms a _cul-de-sac,_ which retains the foul water-closet vapors, poisoning their lung-food before it reaches the wretched inhabitants, it is explained why Philadelphia has unsuccessfully battled with epidemics, and with diphtheria. Also of Boston with its refinement of inconvenience, where, for the profits of the landlord, the household lives in patches and spots, and the house-mother has miles to travel in the steep stair-cases and separate rooms,--her girls, perhaps sleeping in the next attic to the other tenants’ boys; all far removed from maternal oversight, and with the temptations to misconduct strong. Also of New York’s tenement houses,--the most cosmopolitan, the most crowded in the world,--with [their] added burden of night-lodgers; where the tastes are so vitiated that it is impossible to get them out into better quarters. "They can not move,--the landlord gives them time,--the grocer trusts them,--they have no ready money.”

In these tenements the sweating process[^sweat] goes on in its most direful forms, clothing is

[^sweat]: The labor undertaken in tenement sweatshops was frequently referred to as "sweating."

[81]

made in poisonous dens; the wretched workers have not time, and are not allowed to attend to the wants of nature; and not unfrequently ‘degrading conditions’ are the price of employment. Such existence is not life, it is rather a long tarrying for death.

With all this the number turned out in New York exceeds the sum total of evictions in Ireland. Where did they go? They crowd into other holes, poisoning the air which is breathed by golden-haired darlings in the arms of devoted mothers.

In striking contrast to these abominations, Miss de Graffenried gave her impressions of delight, made by the homes in Nashua, New Hampshire, and in Manchester. She also paid a tribute to our home plants in Laurel and Woodberry, where the “hands” are provided with sanitary accommodations, and with Church and school privileges.[^factory] The Cumberland Mills in Maine,--where all the paper used for the Century Magazine is made,--were also given as having made an ideal provision for the worker;--where the rents are from six to fourteen dollars a month and the relations of employer to employed are almost paternal.

[^factory]: The Laurel Mill manufactured flour, cotton cloth, and window shades between 1811-1929; the Woodberry Factory in Baltimore manufactured cotton duck (used in sails) until 1924; the 3-story building was destroyed by fire in 1929.

Mr. A. D. Howland at New Bedford, Massachusetts has also formed a working colony.[^Howland] Having resolved to build only excellent houses, the sewerage cost twenty thousand dollars, and many labor-saving inventions were suggested by Mrs. Howland. Bath-tubs were considered a necessity, on account of the filthy fingers. True, they were put to odd uses;-- one being used as a coal-bin,--the winter’s pork being salted down in an-

[^Howland]: Probably William D. Howland (1853-1897), who established the Howland Mill Village in 1888-1889 for workers employed by the Howland Mill in New Bedford.
 
[82]

other, while a third proved a receptacle for the twin babies of a managing mother.

Miss. Hill’s success in similar work, was mentioned. She owes much to the foresight which enables her to choose fresh, young material,--the knowledge of accounts being a necessity.

Miss Catherine Wolff’s practical help was also described. She has “taken over”-—as the phrase is—-some of the worst tenements in New York, and reformed them.

Miss Alice [North Towne] Lincoln of Boston also furnished an illustration of what a women can do. She owns none of her tenements, but leases them, and, after re-modeling them, at one dollar and eighty cents a week, personally conducting the collecting, and consequent oversight. She has not only paid expenses, but has made six per cent,--with a surplus fund.

In Brief: The redemption of the tenement means more than cutting windows, and making sanitary reforms. It means education to independence; it means a substitution of producers for non-producers,--an application of remedies at hand,-- and personal endeavor and influence, in the stead of the injudicious charity-calculated to allure people to the already over-crowded cities.

At the conclusion of Miss de Graffenried’s vey admirable paper, a rising vote of thanks was tendered her. An informal discussion and conversation followed.

The usual festivities of the Salon were enjoyed by the Club and its guests,--followed by the usual informal adjournment.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)