---
title: 1893-01-24 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-24-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[27]

## 73rd Meeting [January 24th, 1893]

The seventy third meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 24th, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street, with the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, in the chair.

The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of January 17th.

The President read to us a note informing her that Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller, known, by her reputation at least, to most of us, and Mrs. Backus, the President of the Woman's Literary Club of Brooklyn, New York, were experts to be present on the anniversary occasion of the New Century Club of Wilmington, Delaware, on January 31st; and she thought they might perhaps attend one of our meetings at about the same time,-- if there was to be anything of special interest in our meetings to which we could invite them.

It is perhaps a little unfortunate that our Salon this month takes place on the same day

[28]

as the anniversary meeting at Wilmington, as at this Salon, Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin and Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall are expected to preside over the discussion of the very interesting papers given to us by them on January 17th. Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller and Mrs. Backus might however be inclined to visit us, and perhaps to contribute to our entertainment during the next few weeks.

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, from the Committee appointed to consider the resolution for amending the Constitution, in Article V. Section 5., reported that only some little progress had been made; one member of their Committee having been absent from their deliberations, they could not make a full report to the Club at this time; but that if the numbers of the Committee were full in the future, they would do so at a later meeting.

Some books were presented to the Club from Miss Alice Brooks.

The first Article on the Programme was by Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, and was on "The English of American Literature.["]

She reminded us that when the beautiful Saxons first appear in history, they come carrying on their banners, into their battle-fields the representations of the lion and of the red rose,-- the symbols of strength and of beauty. That they came speaking a language which was one of the great so called Indo-European family—akin to the Sanskrit—and which has developed into the one we speak now;

[29]

keeping us in touch with our early forefathers. That there is really no great gulf fixed between the great periods of history; that we are united to those early heroes by one great band, one great truth of kinship. That our speech has come down to us in words, used first in family life, in war, and in religion, from the time when great Odin was believed to have led his forced from the Black Sea to spread over Europe.

Miss Brent spoke of the characteristics which remain to us of this blonde race, this brave, frank, reasoning, investigating people, prone to religious ideas; more than to religious forms;-- the characteristics still to be traced in their words, which are still our own.

She gave us some specimens of words in Sanskrit, and in Saxon and kindred tongues, and their modern equivalents.

"But English, our mother tongue was brought to our shores after many elements had been combined in it, to make it a noble whole. It was brought also by a proud and cultured people,-- lovers of romance and beauty. It came to with the precious inheritance of a noble literature, which, like that of ancient Greece, is in some senses an almost inexhaustible mine of treasures. Let us appreciate, and, if possible, improve this grand old language, ours to love and to use.

Our Essayist said that of course the first American Literature was imitative; and for a time, it was almost entirely theological or at

[30]

least religious,-- this latter quality owing greatly to the circumstances surrounding the early emigration to America. As our history went on "War Songs["] wrote,-- and then followed the writings of Benjamin Franklin, of [Alexander] Hamilton, of [Washington] Irving, and of a long line of skilled writers, down to Hawthorne, Longfellow, [Oliver Wendell] Holmes, [Thomas Nelson] Page, and [Charles Egbert] Craddock [pseudonym of Mary Noailles Murfree],-- and many others, North, South, East, and West, down into our own days.

She spoke of the remarkable word-painting of the novel Ben-Hur. Then of journalism;-- then of criticism;-- and then especially of the new, fresh Southern literature, whose praise is in all the land. Also of the position of woman in literature at the present time.[^lit]

[^lit]: Lew Wallace (1827-1905) was the author of _Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ_ (1880), which became an enormous bestseller of the late-nineteenth century, not to be surpassed until Margaret Mitchell's _Gone with the Wind_ (1936). In 1959 it was made into a film starring Charlton Heston and directed by William Wyler, who won two of the 11 Oscars garnered by the film. Thomas Nelson Page (1853-1922) was another bestselling author of the time and was a key author of the Lost Cause literary tradition described by Brent as the "new, fresh Southern literature." Brent's essay is a representative example of the Anglo-Saxonist historicization of American culture that took place at the end of the nineteenth century. That Brent's paper was presented at the same meeting as Szold's is not only ironic; it raises many questions about the consciousness of the Club.

Mrs. Ruskin calls English "-- at its best, a nobler language than ever Latin was." And surely we can join with Miss Brent in believing the great future of the language "we use and love."

The next Article on our Programme was by Miss [Henrietta] Szold, and was called “An Experiment in Colonization.”

She told us that in the year 593 a king of Spain issued a decree forbidding all Jews in his kingdom to hold land, and confiscating the real estate belonging to his subjects of that race or religion. That this law was the progenitor of many others of the same kind against the people of Israel; by reason of which they, who had been originally an agricultural

[31]

people, were restricted to a few trades and professions, and debarred from acquiring homesteads or cultivating farms. That, although in Austria, the liberal policy of Joseph the Second gave many privileges to the ancient nation, it is not more than a generation ago that the restriction against holding land has been swept away in some parts of Europe. In Russia the Anti-Semitic persecutions of the last twelve years have turned a full tide of emigration to this continent; and the theory has been enthusiastically advanced that the Russian Jews might be successful farmers in American and in Palestine;-- resulting in the beginning of some ten agricultural colonies in this country. One of these was established in Charles County, Maryland. The[y] emigrants who went there staked their all,-- and lost it. They had good will, but not knowledge of our circumstances and condition in this country. The animals did not thrive,-- nor the crops; the colonists were reduced to despair, and the colony went the way of all flesh,-- and of Brook Farm.[^Brook]

[^Brook]: Brook Farm was the ill-fated utopian community established by Unitarian minister George Ripley and his wife Sophia Ripley in West Roxbury, MA, in 1841. The community espoused Transcendentalist and Fourierian ideals regarding labor and individualism. Nathaniel Hawthorne, a founding member of the venture, later satirized it in his novel _The Blithedale Romance_ (1852).

Only two colonies have succeeded;-- on strict business principles. The magnificent gift of Baron de Hirsch is being used more for educational ends than for the ordinary purposes of helping distress. It is used in a system of loans,-- not gifts. The trustees are only morally accountable to the giver of the fund; and are at liberty to use the principal of the gift

[32]

when the existing need is over, for any other benevolent works, they shall deem worthy of it.

Miss Szold is of the colony established under this patronage in the Argentine Republic.[^Hirsch]

[^Hirsch]: The Baron and Baroness Maurice de Hirsch founded the Jewish Colonization Association of Paris in 1891; they purchased 3,000 square leagues of land in the Argentine republic where they established the colonies of Moïseville and Mauricio [not sure where Szold was; guessing the larger/more successful Moiseville]. 

She then went on to speak of the farming community established by the trustees of Baron de Hirsch at Woodbine, New Jersey on the road between Philadelphia and Lake May,-- which has lasted a year, at least, prosperously. The Superintendent and instructor in farming is a Russian from Odessa, who knows both Russian and American conditions of life and of agriculture,-- and besides has a heart. The people are engaged in truck-faming, which requires less capital than some other kinds of agricultural business, and with the small famers of Europe succeeds well, only, near large cites. As in the colony of Vineland, during its first decade, the summer farm-work is supplemented by factory-work in the winter,-- being near the city. But this has a tendency to bring some colonists into the vortex of the social and labor questions of the day. She had heard too that religious scruples had been a disadvantage in some cases;-- also of some unprincipled exactions. That the people of, I believe, the Carmel settlement, were told by the factory superintendents that they, living in the country having smaller rents, and less cost of living, could afford to work for cheaper wages than the city workers,-- which seemed fair enough. But the employers then turned on the city workers, and

[33]

announced that their wages must be cut down, because the same work was done more cheaply by the country people,-- which seemed manifestly unfair.

Miss Szold described a visit she paid to a colony of Russian Jews last summer. She told of the flower gardens and the fruit trees that she saw, of the farms and the people;-- of the good will with which they met her, especially after hearing that she was a teacher. That she went into the school, and found the young children talking English, and making only English and American mistakes in that language,-- not foreign mistakes. English is made the language of the colony, and she said she “never before heard such good ‘broken’ English.[“] She was shown the finest looking of the farms, and was told that “the man” of that farm was “a woman”;-- woman with eleven children,-- the eldest thirty years old,-- and that her husband was a porter. Her hands were rough perhaps, but her clear eyes and pleasant face were very far from ugly.

The Superintendent said that among his Jewish and non-Jewish people he had found only two idle men. He spoke of having facilitated a marriage, and of having prevented a divorce in his colony. We were told of one man who was an interesting type of the present day,-- a civil engineer who had lived in Palestine before coming to America.

Miss Szold had expected to be entertained

[34]

by the Superintendent at his own house; but on her arrival, found that his house happened to be full of his own relations;-- so she was obliged to accept rather rude accommodations at a lodging house for people of the class of carpenters and builders. But this gave her an excellent opportunity to study the colonists on their own ground, in their real village life. She saw how they helped each other; she saw how their eight-roomed houses;-- the factory, being built and was told of the hotel, projected. She listened to the conversations of, sometimes, rather incongruous company; heard American politics and Russian oppressions discussed, sometimes, by men who evidently thought that patriotism and nihilism were synonymous terms, or, apparently, that patriots here would be nihilists in Russia. She was paid the doubtful compliment of being called worthy to be a nihilist,-- in Russia, [that] seemed to be understood.

She sat in their sitting room and heard a discussion on the ideal or real province of literature,-- the realists being very largely in the majority in a company of twenty five. Men who made four dollars a week quoted from almost every known literature;-- from Euripides, Herbert Spencer, and Darwin, from [Honoré de] Balzac, the English Dramatists and American writers,-- in their “good broken English.”

For his cottage and grounds an emigrant pays two hundred dollars; and, at the end of ten years, the remainder of the nine hundred

[35]

dollars it costs;-- but the want of the required sum probably does not debar a desirable colonist from being received. The improvements are not pushed too rapidly. A New York cloak factory has established a branch house in the colony, and work there is paid for.

Miss Szold then took up the question whether the “farming colony” of Russian Jews in this country can be considered “a success”? She spoke of the movement as a whole; of the paternal care that has been exercised over it; of some circumstances which may rob it of some of its usefulness; of other elements that may creep into it.

But going back to the picture she had drawn for us, of what she had seen and felt, she spoke of the prosperous farms an[d] apparently prosperous people; of the vineyards of whose grapes she had eaten; with the strong feeling of realization of the words of the old Hebrew Prophet: “Behold the days come, saith the Lord, that the ploughman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop new wine.-- And I will bring again the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build the waste cities and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them, and I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be pulled up out of their and which I have given them, saith the Lord thy God.” (Amos, 9.13.)

We were promised on our Programme

[36]

a paper by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter; but, as they hour was a little late, Mrs. Easter requested that her paper might be left out. The President announced that Mrs. Easter’s paper would be read at the next meeting. A poem which was to have closed this paper was then read by the President, it was called “Shenandoah.” It tells of the mountain rills that seeks “the shining river,-- the beauteous, lamb-like, bird-like, steed-like, then placid river Shenandoah.”

Announcement was made of some books sent to the Club from the Johns Hopkins University. The meeting adjourned. 

Adopted.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)