---
title: 1893-05-23 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-23-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[125]

## 86th Meeting. [May 23, 1893]

The eighty sixth Meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore,--being the occasion of the annual election of all the officers of the Club,--was held on May 23rd, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The meeting was called to order by the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull. The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of May 16th.

The President announced the last Salon of the year, on Tuesday next, would be our Anniversary Meeting, in which the whole work of the past year would be reviewed. Mrs. Turnbull spoke of the influence of our Club, and of its responsibilities; and, in a few graceful words, invited us to assume the right and privilege of electing our officers for the coming year.

The Scheme or Order of Election, which had been adopted by the Board of Management, and submitted to the Club at its last meeting, was then read to us.

In accordance with this plan, Mrs. [M. N.] Perry was chosen Judge of the Election. She appointed as the three tellers Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman and Miss [Edith] Duer;--the first to hold and give out the blanks for distribution, and the others to receive and count the votes. Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann was made Secretary of the Election, and Miss Fannie [Fanny] Hoffman was made the Doorkeeper.

[126]

The Roll of members was called by Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, the Treasurer. Fifty seven members answered to their names, and afterwards the representation was increased by arrivals and by letters to sixty one names.

The first action in order was the nomination of candidates for President. It had been agreed that all names receiving five or more nominating votes should be written on the blackboard, for the information of the members.

The first nominating ballot resulted in the choice of four names. [Written in pencil:] [Emma Fenwick] Brent - [Mrs. W. Woolsey] Johnson - [Elizabeth] Adams - [Elizabeth T.] King.

The first elective ballot resulted in a majority for Miss  Brent,--who was elected President.

The nominating ballot for Vice President resulted in the choice of five names. [In pencil:] Adams - King - Johnson - [Annie Leakin] Sioussat - [Mary Wilcox] Brown.

The first elective ballot resulted in no majority.

Three of the candidates having withdrawn their names, on the second elective ballot Miss King was elected First Vice President. [In pencil:] (over Miss Adams.)

The nominating ballot for Second Vice President resulted in the choice of four names. [In pencil:] [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, Adams, Johnson, Brown. 

On the first elective ballot, Miss Haughton was elected First Vice President. 

The nominating ballot for Recording Secretary showing a full majority for one candidate, the Club in order to save time, voted _viva voce_ to consider the nomination an election, and Miss [Lydia] Crane was declared re-elected Recording Secretary.

The nominating ballot for Treasurer resulted in the choice of two names. [In pencil:] [Caroline Canfield] Bullock and [Henrietta] Szold.

On the first elective ballot Mrs. Bullock was re-elected Treasurer.

[127]

The new President, Miss Brent then nominated for Corresponding Secretary, Miss Annie [S.] Perot.

By a standing vote, Miss Perot was elected, without opposition, Corresponding Secretary.

Miss Brent then thanked the Club for the honor done her, and expressed her hope and belief that each member of the Club would seek to work with her, and for the mental growth and advancement of us all.

The nominating ballot for the six members of the Executive Committee resulted in the names of twenty one members receiving more than five votes.

After one indecisive ballot,--as it was growing late, and there were evidences of an approaching storm,--the Judge of Election announced that it was necessary to adjourn the meeting to a subsequent occasion, at which the election could be concluded.

The new President appointed the time of meeting again as Saturday Morning, May 27th, at 11 o’clock, until which time, the meeting adjo[u]rned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)