---
title: 1893-01-14 Special Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-14-special.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## Special Meeting. January 14th, 1893.

A special meeting of the Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was called, and was held on Saturday, January 14th at No. 12 East Centre Street for the consideration of a letter received by the First Vice-President.

Ten members were present.

The letter was read to the Board.

It was written by our fellow member, Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, and was in reference to the names proposed for membership on the preceding Tuesday, and voted upon favorably or infavorably, by the Board of Management.

[5]

After some discussion, it was voted that a written reply be sent to this letter; this reply, to be signed by the First Vice-President. This reply was then formed by Mrs. Sioussat.

After further discussion, a committee consisting of Mrs. Sioussat and Mrs. Johnson was appointed to wait upon Miss Adams with the reply.

Miss Ridgely then questioned the legality of the election of members at the late Executive Meeting on January 10th,--the second Tuesday in the month,--the date of the meeting for such election being fixed in the Constitution for the first Tuesday in January.

Discussion followed.

It was then moved that legal advice be obtained on this point prior to further consideration of the matter by the Board of Management on January 17th. This motion was seconded, and carried.

Mrs. Johnson and Miss Ridgely were appointed the committee on this affair,--each to consult a lawyer before January 17th.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)