---
title: 1893-04-25 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-04-25-salon.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[102]

## 24th Salon. [Apr. 25, 1893]

The 24th Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, April 25, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The Recording Secretary having been absent can only copy the newspaper report of this meeting.

### Report in the Baltimore Sun of April 26th, 1893.

“The Woman’s Literary Club enjoyed yesterday afternoon the usual monthly “Salon,” at which the reading of papers and poems was followed by informal talk and five o’clock tea. A bright and interesting paper on “The Education of French Girls” was read by Mademoiselle [Rosine] Mellé, instructor in French at Bryn Mawr School. Several unpublished letters by Sidney Lanier, written in the poet’s exquisite style, were read by Mrs. Turnbull,—who also read a charming little poem entitled “Twilight’s Hush,—an Etching,” by Mrs. Marguerite E. Easter.—Mrs. John M. Miller read a letter written by Madame Jerome Bonaparte, who was the beautiful Betsy Patterson, to her father while she was in England, and inclosing a piece of a ball gown, which she wore on some special occasion.—“My Lady’s Eyes,” a poem by Miss Anna Vernon Dorsey of Washington was also read.”

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)