---
title: 1893-04-11 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-04-11-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[86]

## 81st Meeting. [April 11, 1893]

The eighty first Meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, April 11th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets;--with the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, in the chair.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of April 4th,--which were approved.

The President announced that this meeting was to have been under the direction of Mrs. [Julia R.] Tutwiler, the Chairman of the Committee on the Florentine Commonwealth;--but, that she had just received a note telling her that Mrs. Tutwiler was unable to be present; and, to our great regret, her Article of the Programme, on Fillipo Strozzi, would have to be omitted.

The first article given us was by Mrs. Edward H. [Rebecca] Griffin, and was: “A Few Words about Fra Angelico.” She spoke of having intended to give us at some time the result of a study of Michel Angelo [Michaelangelo], the great master; but that the time given her now was too short for so grand a subject. And sometimes it is well to look at those good and true and noble artists who are not the greatest masters in Art—to whom we make the lowest reverence;--but who are like natural, innocent children, or like fresh flowers, whose bloom we almost fear to injure by handling.

Of the early life of Fra Angelico we know little; but of his faith and spiritual nature his works have much to tell. After he had accepted the religious life, his allegiance to his vows was perfect. It is related of him that, when dining at the Pope’s table, he declined to eat meat, because his own Prior had not given him leave to do so. He sought for no honors; not

[87]

even those of the Church. When an archbishopric was offered to him, he asked that it might be given to his friend Antonino, whose devotion and charity made him worthy of the place. And Antonino,--in whose character our essayist found much in common with one who lived in our own time, Cardinal [John Henry] Newman,--was made an archbishop in place of Fra Angelico.

The flowers of Angelico’s art were flowers of Paradise;--he was a mystic, as truly so as Madame Guyon, or Thomas-a-Kempis;--in simple devotion to his ideals, he looked up from himself to his God.[^guyon] But he did not escape the pitfalls incident to his kind of treatment of Art; and on some minds his pure and spiritual work makes no impression.

[^guyon]: Jeanne-Marie Bouvier de la Motte-Guyon (1648-1717), French mystic imprisoned for her book _A Short and Very Easy Method of Prayer_ (1685); Thomas á Kempis (1380-1471), author of _The Imitation of Christ_ (1441).

Mrs. Griffin spoke of a painter of our own time, who paints nothing that does not show some spiritual beauty;--who, having agreed to paint a picture for a Club, was told that what was wanted was a portrait of President Arthur. He answered: “But he is only a handsome man.”

We were told of the works of Giotto, and of those of Orcagno [Orcagna]; and especially of a carving in stone by Orcagno [Orcagna] representing the Death of the Virgin;--of which we were shown a beautiful reproduction.[^orcagna]

[^orcagna]: Probably a reference to Andrea de Cione Orcagna's _Death and Assumption of the Virgin_ (1359) in the Church of Orsanmichele, Florence, Italy.

Our essayist spoke of Angelico as being all softness and resignation, instead of force; and yet as lacking none of the maxims of Art. If he is not first natural, then spiritual,--if he seems to begin with the latter quality,—still he is natural in his child-like faith.

The message he gives might almost as well have been given by music. His gardens are of those never formed by man, his religious awe adheres to religious

[88]

Types. His style keeps its perfect type, but with the utmost beauty his hand can give us. We miss the grace of movement, the grand sweep of Michel Angelo’s figures;-- Fra Angelico’s have a dead calm, quiet saints around the river of the water of life are quiet saints. But his devils are not devilish. He never began work without prayer;--he never changed the inspiration he received.

Mrs. Griffin spoke of the “Last Judgement” of Michel Angelo as seeming to be a judgement of bodies,--not of souls. She then described some of the pictures of Fra Angelico, and directed our attention to her excellent photographs of them; which were shown to us; especially his own “Last Judgement,”—with Christ enthroned high in the centre, with glorified saints, apostles and angels on his right hand, and, on his left, the last spirits suffering horrors of the same kind as their sins; the slanderers in their tongues, the listeners to evil reports in their ears, &c. His conceptions here are like those of Dante. The saints are like children going through the gate into the city.

“Michel Angelo,” continued our essayist, “seems as as strong as the elements in their power,--and Fra Angelico as beautiful as the flowers in the woods.”

Our next article was by Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, on, “Two Italian Writers,--Petrarch and Bocaccio.” She spoke of the works done in the days that knew not paper and gunpowder, when the compas[s] was not fully known to sailors, and the ships of the Northmen were directed by the flight of ravens, who were taken into the ship when it set sail, and let loose

[89]

after the voyage began. But the orientals, the Chinese—Miss Brent’s favorite orientals—had long known of the compass, among other things of value; and they made long voyages,--even, it is now said, to our own American coasts.

In telling us of the rich and beautiful republic of Florence in the fourteenth century, Miss Brent spoke of the Florentine love of beauty in its various manifestations. She then [spoke] of that time when, if Florence and De Medici were not convertible terms, a Medici might at least say: “I am the State.”

She told us of Petrarch, the son of an exile, much of whose life was passed away from his beloved Florence. Then of the really lovely Laura, who may have been a coquette; but who at least did not drag her lover down from truth and goodness; but elevated and refined him; and, also, inspired those beautiful poems, on which rests his most enduring fame.[^Petrarch]

[^Petrarch]: Brent is referring to Petrarch's sonnets, many of which were addressed to "Laura."

Miss Brent painted Petrarch’s life as, on the whole, noble, intellectual and true;--she told of his friends, and of his influence on them, and on the age he lived in.

His own descriptions of the noble and lovely and well-beloved Laura, in a white robe, with her soft dark eyes, and with flowers in her golden hair, and with her tender smile and down-cast look,--was, we could agree a picture of what a poet’s love should be. And that her poet ascribes all his noblest feelings to her; makes her worthy of high honor.

Petrarch’s acquaintance and association with Boccaccio was also described,--and his influence for good over his brother writer.

[90]

We were told of Petrarch’s receiving of the laurel crown of the poet in the Capitol at Rome, in 1341, and of honors paid him at Naples and at Paris.

Miss Brent dwelt upon Petrarch’s share in that revival of learning in Italy, which preceeded the revival of Art, and on the close connection of both revivals.

The two interesting articles we had heard read relating to Italian artists and Italian writers made very appropriate the introduction of the subject which next claimed our attention;--“The Theatre of Arts and Letters.”[^ART]

[^ART]: _Crane's note:_ I believe the Society of “The Theatre of Arts and Letters” a few months after this meeting, ceased to exist. Recording Secretary

The President announced that the next paper on the programme would be deferred, to receive a visitor. That we had probably heard of the Society of the “Theatre of Arts and Letters” of New York and Boston; with which were connected many names representing the highest culture and standing. That its object was the elevation of the Drama. That she introduced as the representation of this society, Miss [Alice] Fischer, the President of the Twelfth Night Club of New York.[^Fischer]

[^Fischer]: Fischer (1865-1947) was an actress and founded the Twelfth Night Club, the first theatrical club for women, in 1891.

Miss Fischer said that she had not expected to make a speech; that was a member of the company now playing under the auspices of the Theatre of the Arts and Letters at the Lyceum Theatre in this city, and that she was president of a younger club than ours.

She spoke of Mr. Henry B. McDowell, the President of the Theatre of Arts and Letters,

[91]

and of the many well-known leading writers, leading actors, and other representatives of thought and culture who belong to it. She said that the Society hopes to have next October a Club-House and Library near the Theatre. She told us that Mr. McDowell had asked her to invite the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore to become honorary members of the Theatre of Arts and Letters. She explained that honorary membership involved no responsibilities and no dues, but that honorary members could have the privilege of balcony or gallery seats at a reduced rate for the subscription performances.

She said that an informal Reception was to be held on Thursday afternoon, at the Lyceum parlors, by members of the Theatre of Arts and Letters, assisted, she hoped, by some of the Baltimore friends of the Society,--to which she invited the Club.

The President of our Club asked if it was not the intention of this society to elevate the Drama and to make it noble,--with also its dramatic literature?

Miss Fischer responded with an account of the work already done, and work projected by the Society, and of its efforts to bring forward the best and purest American writers and actors,--“we are,” she said, “all of us, I suppose, proud of being Americans.”

The President hoped that the society would give the kind of performances to which a mother could take her children;--free from all that has kept some of us away from Theatre in former years. She spoke of the membership’s in-

[92]

cluding such names as those of the Reverend Morgan Dix, and of Mr. Seth Low, President of Columbia College, as an endorsement of the aims of the Society.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham moved that we accept the invitation to become members of the Society represented by Miss Fischer; if not as a Club, at least as individuals;--which was seconded by Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown.

After some little discussion the motion to accept Mr. McDowell’s invitation to the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore to become honorary members of the Theatre of Arts and Letters, was made by Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait, and seconded by Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann;--and carried without opposition.

[_Crane's note._ Miss Fischer afterwards invited the officers of the Club, and their escorts to occupy a box at the performance of the Theatre of Arts and Letters on Friday Night, as her own guests.]

A proposal was made that Mademoiselle Mellé should now be requested to read to us her article on French Education. A little discussion arose on the question whether the article should be read in English or in French?—but finally the reading was deferred.

The last Article of our programme was by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock; and was called: “A Fantasy.” It was read by Mrs. Lord.

Mrs. Whitelock told us of one whom she called the only poet she ever knew;--not perhaps a writer of verses, but a worshipper of the Horatian Art. He had not been taught his ideas of Art in London; but had made use of his marvelous opportunities in Florence,--where Art is still

[93]

Inspired;--artist souls seem still to be born there and to become one in spirit with their environment. The poet within him freed itself;--he took notes, breathings of those things that the old artists said to him. Instead of his nineteenth century identity, he was the exponent of the old artists’ speech,--of the eternal truths of Art. Happy poet!—the makers of Florence looked out upon him from their marbles. Giotto told him of works more real than marble, created before Rafael was born.

“How can you classify them all?” she said, “if you despise catalogues and guide books?” “Why classify at all?” he answered, “sacred Art never demanded it.” “—We do not count by five great masters,--or by one hundred. Art is not all Italian.” “There is an innumerable host of beautiful painters,--there are those who cry to you: 'You have left us out!'”—the whole illustrious number of the great unknown. They do not haunt me,--they are all remembered. There are the saints and martyrs true to nature, in the time when Art was a reality, instead of a trade;--when the artist asked the lofty privilege of frescoing the walls of his monastery. I take notes, different from guide-books. Publishers will not take them. There are scores of books,--critical ones about the old masters. If I wrote a book, a guide to the soul,--might not a publisher have a soul? The poet discerns not as the critic; he unfolds the soul; but the world wants not poetry. I will give you my books.”

“When I had read it,” says Mrs. Whitelock, ["]I concluded that my poet was right about the publishers.”

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)