---
title: 1893-05-16 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-16-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## Board of Management Meeting. May 16th, 1893.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on May 16, in the Club Committee Room at the corner of Cathe-

[32]

dral and Franklin Streets; with the attendance of ten members.

It was moved and carried, that the meeting of the next Tuesday, being that of our annual Election of all of the officers of the Club, should begin at three o'clock instead of half past three.

Mrs. Johnson then proposed a Scheme for the conduct of the Annual Election of all the officers of the Club. Some discussion followed, and amendments were offered. The Scheme, as finally decided upon, was as follows.

"Scheme

"A Judge of Election to be appointed to conduct the business of the Election.

"Three Tellers to be chosen by the Judge of Election.

"One Teller to hold and give to the other Tellers, for distribution, blanks corresponding to the number of persons present, no more, no less.

"Colored blanks shall be distributed by the Tellers, on which each member is requested to make one nomination for the Presidency.

[33]

"These blanks shall be collected, and must correspond to the number of members present.

"All names receiving five (5) nominations will be considered as Candidates. These names shall be written on the black-board, with the number of nominations each received.

"White blanks shall then be distributed, and members shall vote for President, and the Candidate receiving a majority of the votes cast shall be declared elected. If no Candidate receives a majority on the first ballot, other ballots shall be cast until an election is made.

"The other officers to be nominated, and voted for, in the same manner as for the President.--with the exception of the Corresponding Secretary, who is nominated by the President, and voted for by the Club."

An Amendment was then moved and carried, that:

"Door-keepers shall be appointed to see that only members of the Club shall be admitted while the Election shall be in progress."

The question of voting by proxy, or by letter was then discussed. Mrs. Johnson's motion to forbid

[34]

such voting resulted in a tie vote;--consequently the voting of the Absentees will continue--for this election.

But the decision was made that:

"Voting by letter shall be done by sealed notes, sent by mail, and with the signature of the voter.

The question then arose whether the President for the past year should preside over the meeting at which new officers are to be elected? This seemed to some of members to come within the clause of our Constitution ordering that officers shall continue in office until their successors are elected.

The motion was made that the President for the past year shall preside over the meeting for the election of officers,--and received favorable action.

The question of the formation of the Committees for the coming year was brought forward, and a motion was made that their selection should be left to the in-coming President. This motion was lost.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)