---
title: 1893-02-14 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-02-14-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 75th Meeting [February 14th, 1893]

The seventy fifth Meeting of the Women’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, February 14th, 1893 at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The club met, and was called to order by the first Vice-President, who presided at this meeting.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of February 7th; which were adopted.

The attention of the Club was called to the notice of a Reading to be given by the well-known author, Mr. J. Marion Crawford, for a charitable object. It was to consist of selections from this author’s own works; and tickets could be procured from several ladies mentioned, -- including our fellow member, Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann.

Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown announced that some books and pamphlets had been presented to the Club; by the Reverend Dr. Hodges, by Mr. Ball, and by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock.

Our Programme for this evening was made up of “Authors’ Readings, -- Selections from the Work of Club Members.”

The first Reading was given by Miss Brown of an Article written by Miss Marian V. Dorsey, called: “An Unworked Field for the Realist.”

Miss Dorsey spoke of the effect of our environment on our mental quality, and on our mental growth; and quoted the saying that “a man can no more lift himself by force out of his mind’s environment than he can lift his body over a fence by pulling on his boot-straps.” She went on to recall to us the effect of environment on literature, or rather, on fiction and poetry; -- showing itself in local color, in dialect and provincialisms, and in the character of recorded thought and impressions.

She reminded us while Virginia possessed the creator of “Marse Chan” and “Meh Lady,” [Thomas Nelson Page] --and the farther South, the creator of “Uncle Remus,” [Joel Chandler Harris] -- while the South West has [Charles Egbert] Craddock [(Mary Noailles Murfree)] and others like her, -- Maryland seems virtually still an unworked field for the Realist.

It was admitted that we have among us the author of the “Dukesboro[ugh] Tales” [Richard Malcolm Johnston]; – but Dukesboro' prosesses [professes] to be in Georgia, -- and Colonel Johnson’s pictures, however much appreciated in Maryland, have the color of a more Southern background than our own.[^Johnston]

[^Johnston]: Richard Malcolm Johnston (1822-1898) was born in Georgia and established a school for boys near Sparta, GA. During the Civil War, he served on the staff of Confederate general Joseph E. Brown and afterwards, during Reconstruction, he moved his school to 1732 St. Paul St. in Baltimore, renaming it the Pen Lucy School. Sidney Lanier worked for a time as a teacher under Johnston at the school. Financial pressure led Johnston to write for publication, and his _Dukesborough Tales_ (published between 1871-1883) brought him national acclaim. His works were widely published in national magazines such as _Century_ magazine as well as in book form. In his autobiography, published posthumously in 1900, he continued to express his support of the Confederacy and nostalgia for plantation-based slavery.

But, she thought that surely no state is richer than ours in capabilities for showing local color and characteristics; -- even if we do partake of the tone of the beloved Virginia on one side, and of our good prosperous neighbor Pennsylvania

[46]

on the other. She also recalled the equally unworked field of our sister-state of Delaware.

Miss Dorsey went on to speak of the boggy swampy regions within our borders, where it is constantly reported of the poor white people that, when their crops fail, they eat clay; and consequently, have a correspondingly clay-like complexion, -- and a somewhat retarded civilization. On the other hand, even the Baltimore girls, -- or rather, let us say – the women of Maryland have not yet found their full recognition in literature.

The Maryland girl is like the well saved china and antique furniture, brought across the sea, and which she shows you in country houses, in company with the portrait of her great-grandfather, -- “the signer of the Declaration of Independence, you know,” – either for Maryland, or Virginia, or some other state perhaps.

In the country neighborhoods, the Parish or Church register is a sort of Burke’s Peerage.[^Burke]

[^Burke]: _Burke's Peerage_ is a social registry published since 1826, documenting the gentry and other "distinguished families"; today it includes the United States as well as families from "[Africa, the Middle East, and Oceania](https://www.burkespeerage.com/)."

On the Eastern, and on the Western Shore, a hospitality still reigns, something like that of the olden time.

We were told of the cushion on which Queen Anne knelt at her coronation, afterwards presented by herself to a church in Maryland; and preserved there, piously – as the good people thought, but impiously, in the opinion of a certain good bishop of Irish blood, who ordered it off from its

[47]

place of honor; as only the footstool of one of God’s creatures, and unworthy of any distinction in His temple.

There is an untold wealth of romantic interest too in the tales of the old Catholic settlers and their descendants.

There ought to be a “treasure trove in the old Indian names, -- and all that they stand for, -- to one who can see, hear, and understand them.”

We were then told of the camp meetings in the neighborhoods that seem to be nothing, if not Methodist; -- where, while the religious fervor reaches its high water mark around the preaching stand, some unregenerate kinsman -- or follower – of the worshippers, will invite you, at the back of his carriage, away from the tents, to come and cut a watermelon with him. That the hospitable Spaniard tells you his house is yours; the Arab puts his tent at your service; -- but the Southern Marylander asks you to “assist” at the cutting of a watermelon.

Miss Dorsey spoke of the old homesteads, never bought or sold, with perhaps, hanging on their walls, the original grants from the Lords Proprietary to the ancestors of the present owners.

We were given some lively accounts of the poor people – white and colored, especially the latter class, in the lower counties; many of whom can not understand that religion includes mortality, and yet can never be so wicked as to sing a song. Also of the country superstitions, signs and portents.

[48]

We were told of the oyster-tonging; -- and of the new branches of industry, whereby the “gospel of labor is at last penetrating into Arcadia.[”]

We could join with Miss Dorsey in hoping that, if Maryland can not have her Nelson Page or Craddock, some Maryland woman may yet gather our native violets, may yet show the beauties of the State we love.

The next reading was by Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, of a story of her own. It was called: “Love’s House, a Thought Materialization.”[^love2]

[^love2]: This story was to have been presented at the Oct. 11, 1892 meeting. It was published in _A Mad Madonna and Other Stories_ (Boston: Joseph Knight, 1895) and an excerpt is also included in _Parole Femine: Words and Lives of the WLCB_ (Baltimore: Apprentice House, 2019).

She painted two young lovers -- like two young birds -- marrying in the spring, and building and furnishing the house for themselves, -- and Love, -- to dwell in. There is a mother-in-law, and a fair young foster-sister of the wife, in the story. Through he first, perhaps consciously, through the second, unconsciously, we are told, comes, or seems to come:

[poetry]
“--The little rift within the lute 
Which soon shall make the music mute” --in Love’s House.
[/poetry]

At last the wife sees, or thinks she sees, for we know “the eyes of Love are in his mind,” -- the husband and the young Muriel sitting still with their eyes fixed upon each other. Muriel suddenly disappears from the room; and the husband afterwards insists that she has not been there at all.

Then the shadow takes shape, and darkens Love’s House. Then Muriel disappears,

[49]

unquestionably, from the shadowed home; and the wife, in good faith and courage, tells her husband to go and bring her back; -- “giving him,” says the author, “a trust that saves his soul.”

When both are gone away, Love’s House is full of ghosts, -- until the husband returns alone. Muriel has gone -- to a convent, to take those vows to which her friends have long refused consent; and by which, in her belief, and very soon in theirs also, her truest vocation and destiny are assumed -- and decided.

And, soon after, the husband and wife give the name of Muriel to a little baby-girl, their very own; and Love’s House is again all brightness and loveliness.

The next reading was by Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman, of a story written by Miss Grace Denio Litchfield. It was called “Hillary’s Husband.”[^hilary]

[^hilary]: "Hilary's Husband" (with one "L") was published in the June 1885 issue of _Century_ magazine.

Hillary is first shown to us standing by her window, watching her lover, Aaron Jones, going away from her, -- just as if she were watching the hearse carrying her best loved one to his burial. Then she goes into the room of her aunt, a helpless paralytic, -- who has no one but Hillary to care for her, and for whose sake she has dismissed her lover, -- and she takes up the duties for which love has been sacrificed.

Then Farmer Perkins and his wife, with whom Hillary boards, are photographed for

[50]

us, -- with their surprise on hearing that Aaron Jones has gone to Omaha; with no present intention of coming back The farmer’s wife insists that “no kind of religion ought to ask such a thing” as Hillary has done. But the farmer says only: “Hillary is made of decent stuff, -- she’ll do.”

The next photograph given us, is of Hillary in her own room, after all the family are asleep; dressed in white -- bride-like, even to the veil, a light fleecy shawl, floating around her. She descends to the garden for white roses to put in her breast and hair; and then stands before the glass, lacking nothing -- save some one to say that she is fair. She takes up her prayer-book; finds the right place, and kneels down; -- then remembers the ring. But a piece of yellow silk will do for that. And then, with her hand on the book, she repeats the marriage vows.

From that night a new life begins for Hillary. The silken thread lies under another ring, generally unseen; or, if noticed, explained as put there to remind her of something. She wears Aaron’s favorite colors, she makes presents, and clothes, as she considers them needed for him, -- which are given to the poor, --and she keeps her wedding anniversary, in her own way.

The feeble light of her aunt’s life dies out; the farmer and his wife grow old; and news comes that Aaron Jones is doing well

[51]

in the West, and even that he has married a wife. But Hillary keeps her dream-husband still; and he seems to keep step with her.

At last comes a wonderful bit of news, Aaron Jones -- now a rich widower -- has come back to his early home, -- and is asking for her. Then he declares that there is no change in Hillary, -- she is just what he left her.

But he is not the old Aaron, she can not think him back again. He is too noisy, too stout, his clothes fit him too well. When he asks her to go to the West with him now, there is no helpless form to hold her back; -- but this is not the Aaron of her dreams. After being true to him for years, -- how can she throw him over now? Can any shining ring, replace the often renewed silken one she wears? She can not be faithless to the old Aaron, for the sake of the new one.

She sends her lover away again; and this time, he turns and waves his hand to her.

Farmer Perkins looks on, and says: “Hillary, you are made of decent stuff; -- you’ll do; you’ll do.”

Mrs. Dammann then read to us a Section from the “Imaginary Conversations” of Walter Savage Landor.[^Landor] She quoted from Foster’s Life of Landor, that in these Imaginary Conversations between Heroes, Statesmen and Writers, there is always a great deal of Landor himself. She gave us also the opinions of Julius Hare, and of Hazlitt on Landor’s Work.

[^Landor]: Walter Savage Landor (1775-1864) was a British Romantic writer and poet; his _Imaginary Conversations_ were published over a period of several decades in the first half of the nineteenth century. It's not clear why Dammann is discussing his work at a meeting centered on writings by Club members.
 
The Conversation she read to us was the

[52]

one between Peter the Great and his son, Alexis, when the father and son first meet after the son has been brought back from his unauthorized vis[i]t to Vienna.

In the beginning Alexis seems scarcely to comprehend fully the savage cruelty of his father’s nature, which grows more and more evident through all his references made to the kind of successor he ought to leave to rule the nation, -- to the founder of Rome, who slew his brother, and his charges of the son’s conspiring against the father’s throne.

At last the son is condemned to die; and, we are told, dies of the shock, of his sentence; -- after which, the father calls for brandy, and caviare, and good strong cheese.

[Thomas] Carlyle, who calls this mysteriously ill-fated Alexis, “a poor foolish Czarowitz,[^Czarowitz] miserable, and making others miserable;” -- also calls his father, “a triumphant Czar,” and, “certainly the strangest mixture of heroic virtue and brutish Samoëidic [Samoyedic, like the Samoyeds] savagery the world at any time had.”

[^Czarowitz]: A son of a czar. 

Landor evidently fails to see the heroic virtue through the brutish savagery of Peter the Great; although Landor has, as Emerson said, an English appetite for action and heroes.

The Club then engaged in conversations perhaps less heroic than those imagined by Mr. Landor, but, let us hope, not entirely wanting in what Dr. [Samuel] Johnson called “the endearing elegance of female friendship.”

The meeting informally adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)