---
title: 1893-02-07 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-02-07-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[38]

## 74th Meeting [February 7th, 1893]

The seventy fourth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, February 7th, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

The President called the meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of January 24th.

The President announced that we were to have this afternoon a visit from Miss Julia Marlowe; -- also that Mr. Ford had sent to the Club some fine photographs of Miss Marlowe, taken in her different dramatic characters.

The President then requested the new members present to come forward, and be presented to the Club. Miss Cenas, Mrs. [Florence McIntyre] Tyson and Miss [Lucy] Comins complied with this request.

The President then read the Club’s Certificate of the Membership. She said that some persons had objected to its statements with regard to our aims and efforts as a Club,--thinking them entirely too serious. But, as we had only two hours to be together in each week, we did not know how to do better than to be helpful to each other.

The President then announced that this meeting was to be under the direction of Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, the chairman of the Committee on Art.

The first Article on the Programme was by Miss [Annie C.] Volck, and was called “Chips from Blocks, Old and New.” Miss Volck told

[39]

us she hoped her “chips” might not be very dry ones, though they might be taken from very old blocks. She could only give us a glance at one branch of illustrative art, -- that of wood engraving or xylography.

She reminded us of the fact that with all great inventions, some one else seems always to have preceeded the the authentically known inventor, -- to rob him of his glory, by having done the same thing before he did it. But that the art of wood engraving is like a mighty tree, with divided branches, and various blossoms, whose roots have, far off in the dark ages, disappeared from our view. That it is of oriental origin is generally believed; and the Chinese seem to have been the first people certainly known to have shown acquaintance with this art. They claim to have practiced it some 1100 years before the Christian Era, -- but, at least wood engraving, or wood cutting, was used by them 300 years before Christ.

Perhaps our own ancestors may have known something of this kind of decoration earlier than the 13th Century; but we have no reliable proof of their having put it into practice before that time.

Miss Volck [spoke] of the journeys of Marco Polo and of his father and uncle to China and Mongolia, and of their return about the time that we first find any reference to anything that we can call wood engraving in Europe. The early wood engraving of

[40]

Europe seems to have been exercised chiefly on playing cards, and—on Sacred pictures. The alleged ancient oriental origin of playing cards seems to agree with the earliest mode of producing them.

We were reminded that the celebrated print of Saint Christopher and the Child Christ has the date 1423.[^Saint] Also of the Biblia Pauperum, or Bible of the Poor, that sacred picture-book of the middle ages, with illustrative texts and sentences; first printed with blocks,-- and afterwards with types, and went on to tell us of the early and later history of wood engraving in France and Italy, in England and Germany. She spoke of Albrecht Dürer, and his illustrations of the “History of the Virgin,” and of other works;-- of [Hans] Holbein, and the other German and Dutch “wood-cutters.” Also of the people to whom pictures were literature, -- or ["]gospel.” She went on to speak of Pappillion, of [Thomas] Bewick, and of some of the great names and the great work of the two gloden [golden] ages of this art,-- the 16th, and the 19th Centuries.

[^Saint]: Possibly Lucas van Leyden, _[Saint Christopher Carrying the Infant Christ](https://www.nga.gov/collection/art-object-page.37139.html)_, c. 1521. 
She said that in the 17th Century this art seemed to meet its death blow, by the very movement of reform, demanding artificial refinement, when copper engraving and etching book its place for a time, -- But, later, came its revival.

Miss Volck closed her appreciative and

[41]

well appreciated article, reminding us that it is hardly necessary to speak of the illustrated newspapers and literary periodicals of our own day; nor of our books, to prove that the art of Xylography is keeping step with the times, and with the popular life; that it is ministering to the intelligent progress of an art-loving as well as a book-reading republic.

Miss [Edith] Duer then rose to make the motion that the report of the Committee on the Amendment to the Constution [Constitution] of the Club be deferred to February 21st, and be presented at the meeting of that day: Miss [Fanny] Hoffman seconded the motion, and it was carried, without opposition.

The next article on the programme was by Miss Adams and was called: “Impressionism in Art.” Miss Adams spoke of the idea of impressionism in art; which seems, by some persons, almost to be confounded with the idea of dashed of color on canvas. But there must be some definition of what very many intelligent people believe to be the coming of Art itself. It may be what we see only with the eye, or what the heart and the mind see, of their first knowledge, -- of the first kiss of a mother or, of the first Spring in Italy, to one from New England, to whom the Italian spring is a revelation. When, a high soul leads the hand; when there is aspiration with

[42]

inspiration, then Art has its true mission.

She spoke of some impressionists who are without emotion, -- with grand mechanism of life, without feeling.

Miss Adams spoke of [John Everett] Millais, the great impressionist; of Bastien le Page [Jules Bastien-Lepage]; of Gérome [Jean-Léon Gérôme]; of Bougereau.

She spoke of Egyptian Art, -- of the earliest impressionism; when sometimes out of the repose over all there comes a face full of intense feeling, Then of the grand art of Greece, -- of the first great page of noble impressionism. Then of the art now being unfolded at Pompeii, -- not of painting but of sculpture, bronzes, etc. Then of the combination of Greek and Oriental ideas which became Byzantine art.

In speaking of Venetian art, Miss Adams referred to, and then read to us [John] Ruskin’s description of Venice, -- “so beautiful, so strange,”--”the golden clasp on the girdle of the earth,”--“the emblem of fortitude and splendor, etc.”

We were told of the time “when Florence felt that something must be done for humanity,” – then of Cimabue; then of Dante and of [Girolamo] Savonarola; -- then of the Spanish [Diego] Velasquez; --and of the still undying charm of impressionism.

Miss Adams went on to speak of William Blake; and afterwards of [Dante Gabriel] Ros[s]etti and [Edward] Burne[-]Jones; and of others, who, she said, showed a tender, hopeful sentiment and faith.

She showed us a copy of Ros[s]etti’s picture of Beatrice dying; with Dante in the background; -- representing she said neither Death nor Life, but a strange intermingling of both, -- the idea of the Vita Nuova, caught by the artist; -- of Beatrice, “rapt from earth to heaven.”

We were reminded of [Elihu] Vedder’s illustrations to Omar Kazzam [Khayyam]; of [William Holman] Hunt; of [James Abbott McNeil] Whistler; of [J.M.W.] Turner; and of others.

Miss Adams closed by speaking of the highest and noblest purposes of Art, -- of all arts; -- and of the rich gifts the bring to us.

It seemed appropriate that our literary, having being devoted to the consideration of two kindred branches of Art, should be followed by the visit of the devotee to another form of art, -- the dramatic one, in the person of Miss Julia Marlowe: She and her companion in the same profession, Miss Lindemann, -- or Mrs. Woodward, -- now arrived among us accompanied by our fellow member Miss  [Louise] Malloy.[^Marlowe]

[^Marlowe]: Julia Marlowe was the stage name of Sarah Frances Frost (1865-1950), a British-born American actress. Eugénie Lindemann Woodward (1859-1947) was an actress and writer who appeared with Marlowe in several productions. Malloy likely made the acquaintance of these actresses through her work as a dramatic critic for the _Baltimore American_.
 
The President presented Miss Marlowe to the Club and she and Miss Lindemann received cordial greetings.

It has been said that Miss Marlowe’s chief charm, on the stage, is her graceful womanliness; --and we, who have now seen her, off the stage, can perhaps fully appreciate the assertion. As women, as lovers of art, literature, and beauty, we can certainly appreciate a charming personality. We were introduced to the two ladies, who gave

[44]

their autographs to our visitors[’] book, and to some of our members, individual[l]y.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)