---
title: 1893-02-21 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-02-21-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[53]

## 76th Meeting [February 21st, 1893]

The seventy sixth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, February 21st, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street[.]

The meeting was called to order by the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

The customary reading of the Minutes of the last previous meeting was omitted.

The President announced that the first article of the Business before us was the Report of the Committee of five appointed to consider the Amendment proposed by Miss [Edith] Duer to Article IV Section 5 of our Constitution [on membership; reproduced at the end of the minutes for this meeting.].

The Committee presented majority and minority Reports.

The majority Report, signed by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, Mrs. Hamman [Louise C. Haman], Mrs. William Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson, and Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, announced; that: In their opinion it is not advisable at this time to adopt the proposed Amendment.”

The minority Report, signed by Miss Duer, said that: “She is in favor of adopting the Amendment proposed.”

Miss [Lydia] Crane moved that the majority Report be adopted.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton seconded the motion; and, with very little further discussion, it was carried, by a large majority.

Mrs. Johnson proposed a resolution that a Committee of five should be elected by the Club to revise the Constitution; that they should receive suggestions before the 11th of March; that each Section amended should be

[54]

submitted to each member of the Club, before the 28th of March; and that the Committee should report the result of their work to the Club on the 4th of April, to be voted upon.

Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin seconded this motion.

The President reminded us of the careful thought, attention and investigation which preceded and accompanied the formation and adoption of our Constitution; -- but that, after all; it was only the instrument by means of which the wheels are to be made to run smoothly in carrying forward our distinctly literary work. That this work had been interrupted and retarded by proposed amendments to the Constitution; and by discussions on business, which, to many of us, do not seem to conduce to the welfare of the Club, -- nor to our mental refreshment and advancement.

Mrs. Johnson said she thought it would be well to have stated times for business meetings; rather than to have, as now, the risk of any member rising at anytime to propose a question of business. She pointed out that the Constitution, made nearly three years ago, was faulty in some respects; especially in the matter of electing officers, and also in respect to the fact of the small number constituting a quorum of the Board of Management, -- she thought this ought to be seven instead of four.

The President called attention to the fact of our being now very late in the Club year,

[55]

and to the consideration we ought to give to our real and important work, -- the work for which we have our existence as a Club.

After some discussion, in which Mrs. Colvin, Miss Duer, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock and others took part, -- Mrs. [Laura] Atkinson asked the President herself: “if she really desired to postpone action on the subjects under discussion till the end of the year?”

On receiving an affirmative reply, Mrs. Atkinson said the -- “the wish of so acceptable a President ought certainly to have weight with us.[“]

This sentiment was applauded.

Mrs. [Gertrude Pierce] Easby requested Mrs. Johnson to withdraw her motion.

Mrs. Johnson, after giving us a few words of explanation, acceded to this request.

Mrs. Sioussat said that Mrs. Johnson having kindly withdrawn her motion, she herself moved that all action on the subjects under discussion be postponed until after the end of the year.

After some further discussion, Mrs. Sioussat’s motion for postponement was carried, -- by a vote of forty five in favor to nine against it. (45 to 9).

As the Club was expected to participate in the Reception given at the opening of the home of the Academy of Sciences, the same evening; -- this last vote was followed by an informal adjournment.

The Programme prepared for this meeting was postponed; not, we trust, like the business under discussion, to the end of the year; but adjourned, like the meeting, to an occasion when

[56]

we can “enjoy” the good, --

[poetry]
“-- dear wit and gay rhetoric,
That hath so well been taught,--“
[/poetry]

And expressed by the essays of our fellow members.

As part of the history of the Club, I think it just to put on record the full text of Miss Duer’s Resolution to amend Article IV Section 5 of the Constitution, offered in full meeting, on January 3rd 1893: -- and, also, of the majority, and minority Reports of the Committee of five members appointed to consider the said Resolution, offered in the full meeting of February 21st, 1893.

Miss Duer’s Resolution related to the proposer and seconders of the nominations for new members, and was as follows:

### Amendment to Article IV Section 5.

The last paragraph shall read --

“They must also state whether they believe such a person to be capable of fulfilling the required duties.”

### Majority Report.

“The Committee appointed to consider Miss Duer’s Amendment to Article IV Section 5 'of the Constitution,' -- beg leave to report that in their opinion it is not advisable at this time to adopt the foregoing Amendment.”

[indented]
Annie Leakin Sioussat, Chairman.
Louise Clarkson Whitelock.
Louise C. Haman.
S. L. Johnson.
[/indented]

January 26th, 1893.

[57]

### Minority Report.

“The undersigned begs leave to present a minority report, to the effect that; she considers it unwise, unusual, and ungenerous to ask any one to subscribe to the conditions of membership before she is elected; consequently, she reports in favor of adopting the amendment as proposed.”

[right] or [indented] Edith Duer.  

The majority Report was, as previously recorded, adopted, by a large majority, at the full meeting of the Club on February 21st, 1893.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)