---
title: 1893-02-07 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-02-07-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[22]

## [Board of Managers] Meeting of February 7th [1893].

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on February 7th, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street, with nine members present.

The President called the meeting to order; and reminded us of the suggestion, made at a former meeting, of a tax or loan upon or by the members of the Club, of an extra three dollars, to meet the expenses of furnishing our new rooms.

Some discussion was carried on as to what was absolutely necessary now, and what could be left out, or at least, deferred.

Wall-paper, carpet and curtains having been already decided upon, to be ordered: with regard to chairs and book-cases, no decision was reached.

It was suggested to ask for a definite sum from the Club.

It was also said that the dues for the coming half-year were "owing today", and that it would be better, on every account, to let them come in, before asking anything else from our members.

The whole subject was then deferred.

The Treasurer asked instructions

[23]

with regard to paying our fees as honorary members of the Academy of Sciences;--and was instructed to pay them at once.

A suggestion was made that there should be a fixed date for paying these dues;--which met the approbation of all present.

It was stated that the building into which we were about to move was not yet ready for our occupancy.

The hour of the Literary meeting being at hand, the Executive meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)