---
title: 1893-05-15 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-15-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[117] 

## 85th Meeting. [May 15th, 1893]

The eighty fifth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, May 15th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The meeting was called to order by Mrs.

[118]

[Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, the President; and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the previous meeting on May 9th.

The President read a letter from Miss Keyser, the sister of Mr. Ephraim Keyser, the Sculptor. It expressed the gratification of Mr. Keyser from the high appreciation shown by the Woman’s Literary Club of his own State for his work as an artist. He had expressed particular pleasure that one of his works had inspired the poetic muse of a member of the Club.

Our President then spoke of the honor lately conferred upon one of our honorary members, Miss Sarah Adams, the sister of our own Miss Elizabeth Adams. Our honorary member has come back to America from Europe, with a gold medal presented to her by the German Government in token of their appreciation of her efforts toward the success of the lately erected Memorials to Goethe and Schiller. Miss Sarah Adams had also been chosen by Grimm as the translator of his Works into English.

A letter was then read by the Vice President Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, from our fellow member, Miss Elizabeth Adams; “To the Ladies of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore,” presenting to us a beautiful portrait, painted by herself, of our first, and for three years only President, Mrs. Turnbull. Miss Adams’s letter spoke of the excellent work done by the Club in the various departments of Literature and Art, during the three years of its existence,--“in

[119]

all of which the guiding hand of Mrs. Turnbull has been felt.” “For all this,” says the letter, “let us thank her; and let me hope that this portrait will bring her in full remembrance to you all.[“]

A vote to thank Miss Adams was moved by Miss Brent, and seconded by Miss [Mary F.] Grace; and of course, carried immediately.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock then read to us an Article in the last Churchman, giving an account of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore. It spoke of the founders and prominent members of our Club,--of our President,--of the late Mrs. Tiernan [Mary Spear Tiernan],--Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin],--Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey [Hester Crawford Dorsey Richardson],--Miss [Katharine Pearson] Woods,--Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, and others; and gave some account of the excellent work, and growing good influence of the Club. It closed with a very appropriate quotation from the last annual address of our President.[^Churchman]

[^Churchman]: The article "The Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore" appeared in the May 13, 1893 issue of _The Churchman,_ p. 665.

Mrs. Turnbull next announced the request of our Treasurer, Mrs. Bullock, that her Report presented at our last meeting, should be audited by a Committee of her fellow members. As a matter of routine, the President appointed Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat and Miss [Henrietta] Szold as this committee.

The President then announced that at our next meeting the annual election for all the officers of the Club would be held; and that to give time for this important business at half past three as usual. She also announced the Method or Scheme by which this election will be conducted,--as follows:

- “A Judge of Election to be appointed to conduct the business of the Election.
- “Three tellers to be chosen by the Judge of the Election.

[120]

- “One Teller to hold and give to the other Tellers, for distribution, blanks corresponding to the number of persons present,--no more,--no less.
- “Colored blanks shall be distributed by the Tellers, on which each member is requested to make one nomination for the Presidency.
- “These blanks shall be collected, and must correspond to the number of members present.
- “All names receiving five (5) nominations will be considered as candidates. These names shall be written on the blackboard, with the number of nominations received.
- _White_ blanks shall then be distributed, and members shall _vote_ for President, and the Candidate receiving a majority of the votes cast shall be declared elected. If no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast shall be declared first ballot, other ballots shall be cast until an election is made.
- “The other officers to be nominated and voted for in the same manner as for President;--with the exception of the Corresponding Secretary; who is nominated by the President, and voted for by the Club.
- “Doorkeepers shall be appointed to see that only members of the Club shall be admitted while the Election shall be in progress.
- “Voting by letter shall be done by sealed notes, sent by mail, and with the signature of the voter.”

Announcement was made to the members who have not received their certificates of membership, that they can; if they wish, apply for them.

Announcement was also made that it is expected to

[121]

form in the Club, a Committee on Archeology which members interested in that subject may wish to join.

Also that a Class in Geology in connection with the work of the Academy of Sciences is proposed. Dr. [Philip] Uhler has spoken of some new discoveries in this department of knowledge in the neighborhood of Baltimore; and he would be glad to see a more wide spread interest taken in the subject. The first meeting of this Class would be held on Thursday, at five o’ clock.

The first literary article on our programme was by Miss [Annie S.] Perot, and was on the “Fin de Siecle, School of Fiction.”--She spoke of the Fiction of the present day; its lack of spirituality, its want of the development of the hidden meaning of common things, its treatment of Art as an end, and not as a means to reach something higher still. She spoke of the influence of [Robert] Browning and of [Richard] Wagner, and of other leaders of thought and expression in the nineteenth century. She spoke of the Fictions of Russia and Germany and France, as well as of those of England and America,--critically comparing their characteristics.

The review was entertaining; but perhaps we may hope, that before the real Fin de Siecle, we may have better Fiction still than the first three years of the last decade of our century have been giving us; that the literature and and art of even the near future may, in its own way follow the clear leading voice of the late poet laureate,

[poetry]
“Call me not so often back!  
Forward to the starry track,  
On, and always on!”[^Tenny]

[^Tenny]: Crane quotes from Alfred Tennyson's "The Silent Voices" (1892).
[/poetry]

Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait, of the Committee on Current Criticism, next gave us her review of a Romance: “The Chevalier di Pensieri Vani,” by Henry B. Fuller. It was a lively de-

[122]

scription of scenery and characters, and especially of different points of view. The book is remarkable for the characterization evolved by description, without the aid of conversations; that is, without any talking in the first person at all, except by the author himself.

Mrs. Tait brought before us with varied and lively interest the typical Italians,--male and female;--the English Duke, “fully armored in an amalgam of insularity and cosmopolitanism;” and Mr. G. W. Occident, an American. This last young man has left the “general awfulness” of Shelby County, “to see for himself if life were not better worth living than he could make it seem in the region where he had had the misfortune to be born.” Yet he finds it hard to forgive the blunt declaration of one of his Italian friends, that “America might indeed be an example to older countries,--to serve less as a pattern than as a warning.”

Mrs. Tait gave us the Finale; in which Occident finds in the person of a successful Prima Donna in Italy, a girl, from Shelby County also;--and they two conclude to go back to their old home and old friends; taking with them grateful remembrances of the Cavaliere di Pensieri Vani.

The next article on our programme was of three Poems by Miss Reese. The first was on “Lilies of the Valley.” She seemed to bring us these flowers of today, and to bring with them the olden times that bloom again for us when they bloom with the old perfume and loveliness. The second was called, “In a Prayer Book”; telling of the warfares that we must wage alone, and of the eternal comfort of knowing that the greatest Love is love still, and still prevails.

Another poem read by Miss Reese tells us that

[123]

“Polly looks from her window, and takes the air,”--and “hears the nightingale,”--“when April is in town,” making us feel that even in town the good gift of spring can come to us.

One other poem she read to us was called: “Fra Basil;”--telling of the pious, artless brother, who works in his garden for this Lord; and hopes that when in--or near--his Lord’s presence, he may have a little garden to work in, for his Lord’s praise still.

The next article on our programme was a story by Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett, called: “A Corrected Impression.” In this story we have Margaret, who has brought her knitting and come to spend the evening with Belvedera. Both of them are sixty; both widows; but Belvedera has been a beauty; and a village belle; and Margaret has been “very plain” always:--which makes them different being of course. Yet Margaret has had a husband worth having, in her opinion, and in that of her neighbors, apparently;--and she visits his grave very often, saying “it is no much company for her” to be near where he lies. They talk of old times, recalling a certain Sunday when Belvedera wore her new spring bonnet and dress, and set the hearts of boys--and perhaps of the girls too--in a flutter. Margaret confesses that was the only time she ever felt jealous of Belvedera;--just then, when Joe left her, and went to talk to Belvedera for a minute or two. But he came back to her,--and asked her to marry him too. Of course she said “yes,”--“she had not thought she was going to get the pick of the lot.”

Belvedera, after a moment, asks Margaret if she shall tell her what Joe said to her on that occasion? Mar-

[124]

garet assenting; Belvedera tells her that Joe said: “Belvedera, let’s take everything back, and be just as we were before.” “I only laughed at him,” she said, “I thought he was just like the rest of the boys;--but he wasn’t.” “You don’t mind Margaret,--do you?” “No, I don’t,” said Margaret;--but she got up, and went home.

A little later she goes to Joe’s grave;--but her very prayer there is an indignant protest that it is not right for Belvedera to have had everything,--even Joe’s love.

The bliss that may have been ignorance, was gone for ever,--or for this world, at any rate.

The last article on our programme was by Miss Brent, and was on “Lorenzo di Medici.” She quoted [Thomas Babington] Macaulay’s eloquent description of the glory of Florence under the rule of the Medici family. She told us of the early life of Lorenzo; of his literary and artistic tastes; of his immense work for the improving and beautifying of Florence. Also, of his sonnets to his lady-love,--telling of a love more poetical than passionate, perhaps, for we were reminded of his saying, that poetry had made him a lover,--not love a poet. She spoke of his having been made to marry a lady chosen for him by his father; but she thought that the marriage was a happy one; and, in testimony to his opinion, she read us a pleasant letter to his wife, showing, as she said, that husbands and wives probably wrote to each other in those days very much the same kind of letters that they write to each other now. She told us of the great men of that time; not only those of Florence, but the great men of other countries also, who were attracted by the wealth of art and learning concentrated in the beautiful city on the Arno. Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent closed with Mrs.

[125]

[Anna Brownell] Jameson's description of Florence;--“which seems to gather into itself all that makes life a sunny dream of beauty and delight.”

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)