---
title: 1893-04-18 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-04-18-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[94]

## 82nd Meeting. [Apr. 18, 1893]

The eighty second Meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, April 18th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets;--with the President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull in the chair.

The Recording Secretary read the the previous meeting on April 11th.

The President announced the programme for next meeting on April 25th; which would be a Salon; but she reminded the members present that it had been decided to have some literary exercises on the evenings of our social meetings; and to postpone the adjournment, on these occasions, until six o’clock, in order to give time for the literary as well as for the social features of our Salons. Mrs. Turnbull next read a letter from an elderly lady in Brooklin [Brooklyn], giving an interesting account of the collection of Woman’s Works of Kings County, New York, to be sent to the Chicago Exposition. She told of the remarkable and somewhat unexpected success with which the efforts to make this collection have been rewarded. Besides very many strictly literary works, going to the year 1743, there were those of an astronomer, a geologist, a map-drawer, a writer of music, and of other departments of menial labor among women, who had been too modest for any noisy fame formerly.

The letter was written to Mrs. Turnbull, who was personally interested, and also identified with the contributors to the collection described. The writer, as our President told us, seems late in life to preserve the mental vigor and lively interests of youth.

The letter went on to speak with great and

[95]

grateful praise of the wise and successful labors of the lady to whom the business of making this collection had been mainly committed;-- Mrs. Packer, formerly Miss Jones of Baltimore, a sister of our former fellow-member, Mrs. Alan [P]. Smith.

Announcement was made of gifts to our library--including Miss Emily [V.] Mason’s “Southern Poems of the War.”

The programme of this evening was under the direction of Miss Mary Worthington Milnor, Chairman of the Committee on “The Artists and Authors of Maryland”.

The first article on our programme was by Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett, and was on “Rhinehart, Our Maryland Sculptor.” She spoke of a visit to Rhinehart’s [William Henry Rinehart] early home in Carroll County. Also of her meeting there an old man, who expressed a sort of mild wonder over the summer boarders and visitors who came to that place, and take pictures of it, and ask questions about the young man, who, many years ago, lived there; who worked in stone, “and wanted to make images,-- he did not care for much else.”

As the old man talked, the artist of the visiting said; “Art is the real witness of what is behind this show.”

“His people,” the old man went on [to] tell, “were well to do; but they did not care for the image business. He went away with either thirty nine or sixty nine cents in his pocket to Baltimore, and got work in a marble yard in Howard Street; where they [gave] him very particular work to to do,-- mantlepieces, and even monuments,- and he might have been a partner in the marble works,-- but he wouldn’t give up the images; and he heard of a place where they make them better than they do here; and he would go there,”-- The old man added;

[96]

“I [wasn’t] raised here, and the most I know about Rhinehart is hearsay.”

It was well to turn from this version of the opinions of Rhinehart’s early neighbors, to the unchanged face of Nature, and see what Rhinehart saw when his artist soul was born, and first began to grow[,] before he went to that desirable country where they do the work he loved better than they do it here;-- and to hear the artist of the party repeat, “Art is the real witness of what is behind this show.”

Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor then read an account of the ceremony attending the unveiling of Rhinehart’s statue of Chief Justice Taney, near our Washington Monument; the actual unveiling having been done by a great grandson of the Chief Justice.[^Taney]

[^Taney]: The statue of Robert. B. Taney by William Henry Rinehart was unveiled in the north garden of Mount Vernon Place in Baltimore in 1887. It was removed in August 2017 along with three other monuments associated with the Confederacy. Taney authored the majority opinion in Dred Scott v. Sandford (1857), which claimed that Black people "had no rights which the white man was "bound to respect." 

We were told of the seventy five thousand dollars left by Rhinehart for the promotion of Art, and for the benefit of young sculptors in Maryland.

In contrast we were told of his having begun his work at the marble cutter’s for two dollars and fifty cents a week; which only sufficed for his board and washing;-- his father having given him his trunk, fifty cents, and a lesson in economy. We heard also of the appreciation and patronage of our fellow citizen, Mr. [Henry] Walters, who was instrumental in his going to Italy, and in much of his subsequent success.[^Walters]

[^Walters]: Henry Walters (1848-1931) was the founder of the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore (referred to as "Walter's Gallery" in the subsequent paragraph.

His works were mentioned;-- especially The Woman of Samaria, now in Walter’s Gallery; Clytie, which he called his master-piece; Endymion; the Bronze doors in the Capitol at Washington; The Angel of the Resurrection; &c.

Miss [Mary F.] Grace was requested to tell us something of

[97]

Her acquaintance with Rhinehart in Rome. She spoke of having seen him in Baltimore, and of having shown politeness to the then young, unknown artist; which was years afterwards rewarded in the Eternal City,-- where people from the same place are often glad to meet each other. She spoke of once meeting, at a Cardinal’s reception, a lady who called her by name,-- whom, she said, “I found to be just one of us at home, who had effloresced into an Italian countess.

“Rhinehart,” said Miss Grace, “had the head of a demi-god, and the body of a peasant,-- and the most luminous kind of eyes, like a pair of stars. He ate bread and butter like other mortals; his conversation was not remarkable,-- yet he was a delightful companion. We know that there was a romance in his life-- he was engaged to Miss Kummer, who had the felicity of dying in his presence; if that was a felicity.

Mrs. Turnbull then spoke of the artist [Hiram] Powers as having had most beautiful eyes,-- divinely beautiful, in the sense in which Art can be called divine,-- and a superb head.

Miss Grace then read a poem by Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent called “The Toying Page.” Before she began reading, our attention was called to the fine bronze statue of “The Toying Page,” by [Ephraim] Keyser, another Maryland artist. The statue is three quarters life size, and is owned by Mrs. O’Donovan, who had kindly loaned it --through Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor-- to the Club for this occasion.

Miss Brent’s poem spoke of the handsome careless young page, toying with fine tempered steel, which thoughts of lady’s bower, or battle field,-- until he feels a little wound.

Then of the youth and maiden, who stand before the statue, and as he looks at her, he knows himself wound-

[98]

-ed,-- he knows himself bound.

Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor gave us some account of the works of Ephraim Keyser,-- his De Kalb Monument,-- his Psyche,--his Pet Falcon,-- his bust of Cardinal Gibbons, &c. Also his Memorial to President Arthur of Albany,-- and the statue of the same President, ordered to be placed in the city of New York.

Miss Brent referred to the large bequest of Rhinehart for the education of young students of sculpture in Maryland; also to the beauty, grace and dignity of his works; and said that she feared that his services to his own State were all forgotten, as she had never seen a flower upon his grave.

The suggestion was made that the member of our Club should, at least once a year decorate the graves of Rhinehart, Edgar Poe, Sidney Lanier and of any others of the authors of artists of Maryland whose graves are with us. To the suggestion of doing this on Decoration Day; Miss Brent answered, that “it was a day sacred

[poetry]
“Love and tears for the blue,
Tears and love for the gray!”
[/poetry]

To the suggestion of All Saints’ Day, she said that “so many of our people would go to “God’s Acre” on that day, it might be well for the Club to make another choice.”

After some discussion, a resolution was offered by Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, and seconded by Miss Grace, appointing All Saints’ Day, November 2nd, for decorating the graves of Lanier, Poe, Rhinehart, and others of the artists and authors of Maryland; and appointing Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor and Miss Brent the Committee to have this affair in charge, with the power to add other members to their Committee to assist them. This motion was carried without opposition.

[99]

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Edward Shippen, and was on “War Songs.”

She said that she had wished very much to correct the errors in an Article in the Century Magazine, signed by Mr. Brander Mathews; in which the strange assertion was made that our national song, The Star Spangled Banner, was written to fit an old tune. In the same article also, an erroneous account was given of the setting to music of the song “Maryland, My Maryland.”

Mrs. Shippen, who owns the original manuscript of The Star Spangled Banner, as begun on the back of an old letter, told us how Francis S. [Scott] Key and a friend of his, went, in the kindness of their hearts, on board one of the English War Ships to try to obtain the release of another American and civilian friend of theirs, detained a prisoner of the enemy. Though finally successful in their mission, they were themselves detained on ship-board, while the attack on Fort McHenry was being made. How they afterwards described with great animation the surprise and anxiety of the three Americans while the firing went on. How the trouble of their souls grew greater when, before day, ”the red glare and the bombs bursting in air” ceased to be seen and heard, and the fear came to them that the [cessation] meant surrender. But as soon as there was enough morning light to see that “our flag was still there,” Mr. Key, in the first enthusiasm of that assurance, began to write his song, on the back of an old letter. He wrote it out fully that same night after he came back to Baltimore, and showed it to his brother-in-law, Judge Nicholson, Chief Justice of the State. It was Judge Nicholson who fitted it to the tune of Anacreon in Heaven, which

[100]

suited it wonderfully well; and who received the gift of the original manuscript. It was soon known and sung all over Baltimore; and very soon afterward, all over the country.

The tune of Maryland My Maryland was also not a native one, although like that of the Star Spangled Banner, it would seem as though it ought to have been so.

Mrs. Shippen told us that one day, while our Civil War was raging, Mr. Rozier Dulany took a copy of the song Maryland my Maryland, —then recently written by Mr. J. R. Randall,—to the house of Mr. Carroll, where a party of the fair young ladies of Baltimore were accustomed to meet and spend their time making clothes for the Confederate soldiers. The song was received with enthusiasm; so was the suggestion to sing it; and various airs and old college tunes were tried to be fitted to it. Miss Jennie Cary at last chose one of these old college tunes which suited the words extremely well.[^MMM]

[^MMM]: "Maryland, My Maryland," the state song from 1929-2021, was sung to the tune of the familiar German Christmas carol "O Tannenbaum"; the tune was also used for college and high school anthems and fight songs, as noted by Shippen in her article.

Mr. Dulany was forthwith requested to have the words and music published together; but he positively declined to do so, for the reason that: “Fort McHenry was entirely too near.[“] Some of the young ladies suggested that “men were too timid for anything.” Finally Miss Rebecca Lloyd Nicholson said that “her father was a Union man, and she was not afraid.”—she would publish it herself. She took it to the music store of Miller and Beacham for publication; —and soon the words and music were known all over the South,–and elsewhere too.

Mrs. Shippen authenticated her account, not only by attesting her presence in the party of girls described, but by the further statement: “_I_ was the Miss Rebecca Lloyd Nicholson, who had the song published,—myself.”

She said that her father was a believer in State

[101]

Rights; but he thought that the battle to be fought out at the polls, and not with the sword. She spoke of those who gave their lives, and of those gave the loved ones dearer than their own lives, to fight for what they believed to be the Right. But she thought we could all of us now join in a few lines she quoted from Maryland My Maryland, and a few more from The Star Spangled Banner.

We were given other sad or stirring songs by Southern writers; —one on the dying words of a young soldier who had been the only support of an aged mother: “Who will care for Mother, now”;— “A Mother’s Prayer,” with words and music by Mr. Otto Sutro;—the ringing “Stonewall Jackson’s Way,” by Dr. [John Williamson] Palmer; “The Vacant Chair,” written in Massachusetts, but sung both in North and South; “Dixie’s Land,” an old Minstrels’ Song; —“The Southern Cross,” set to the same tune as “The Star Spangled Banner[“]; a song “To the Exchanged Prisoners,” written by Mr. J. Teackle Wallis, when he was a prisoner in Fort Warren, in 1862; and “God Save the South,” by Mr. George H. Miles of Baltimore. Of course, “The Girl I Left Behind Me” was a song not forgotten by soldiers of either side.

Mrs. Shippen’s very entertaining article was received with applause.

Mrs. Turnbull announced, that the Committee for decorating the graves of authors and artists of Maryland, next All Souls’ Day, would publish a notice a week before that time, that those interested in this work may send flowers to the Committee room of the Club. She wished that this work might be known as the work of the Club.

Mrs. Turnbull also spoke of the great sorrow that had fallen on a member of our Board of Management, Miss [Henrietta] Szold, in the death of her sister. Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat was requested to draw up a resolution ex[tending] the sym[p]athy of her fellow members for Miss Szold.

A vote of thanks was passed to Mrs. O’Donovan for

[102]

loan of her bronze statue of “The Toying Page.”

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)