---
title: 1893-05-27 Special Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-27-special.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## Special Meeting. [May 27, 1893]

The adjourned meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, held for the special purpose of completing the election of officers for the Club[,] year of 1893 and 1894, took place on Saturday morning, May 27th 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The officers still to be elected were the six members of the Executive Committee.

The Officers of the Election were the same as on

[128]

the occasion of the former meeting, with the exception of the tellers, Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud doing duty in that capacity for Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman.

At half past eleven, the Club proceeded to business.  

There were thirty eight members present,--and fourteen members sent their written, sealed, votes, making a total of fifty two votes.  

During the meeting some discussion arose on the right of members present to refrain from voting. It was ruled that any member desiring to so refrain ought to leave the room.  

The first ballot for the election of the first member of the Executive Committee resulted in a majority for Miss Mary Willcox [Wilcox] Brown, who was, of course declared elected.

For the second member of the Executive Committee five ballots were taken, the fifth resulting in the [election] of Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord.

The first ballot for the third member of the Executive Committee resulted in the election of Miss [Henrietta] Szold.

For the fourth member of the Executive Committee two ballots were taken;--the second ballot resulting in the election of Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson.

For the fifth member of the Executive Committee four ballots were taken,--the fourth ballot resulting in the election of Miss [Mary F.] Grace.

For the sixth member of the Executive Committee, eight indecisive ballots were taken.

[129]

Not only did the candidates seem to have very constant supporters and friends, but the votes sent by mail, which could not be changed, added to the number necessary to be a choice, and consequently to the difficulty of obtaining a majority.

The hour was growing late, and a compromise ticket was proposed presenting two names taken from the list on the blackboard. On this ticket two ballots were taken, resulting in the election of Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, as the sixth member of the Executive Committee.

A vote of thanks was given to our members who had acted as officers of the Election, and the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)