---
title: 1893-01-24 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-24-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## [Board of Managers] Meeting of January 24th [1893].

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on January 24th, at No. 12 East Centre Street; with ten members present:--the President, two Vice-Presidents, two Secretaries, Treasurer, Mrs. Johnson, Miss Grace, Miss

and Miss Brown. Later Mrs. Colvin also arrived, making eleven members present.

Notice was given that another note had been received from the mmeber of the Club who had objected to the name of one of the proposed new members voted upon favorably by the Board on January 10th. In this latter note the objecting member said of the lady to whom she had taken exception, and whose name she had requested to have reconsidered, that she had since learned that the newly proposed member had

[20]

claims to authorship, of which she had not herself been aware, and that she withdrew her objection.

The question was discussed whether the withdrawal of this formal objection would cause the name to which objection had been made to stand as that of one elected to the membership of the Club? Mention was made of some informal objections in the same case. After further discussion, it was agreed to lay the whole matter on the table,--to be considered at the next meeting of the Board.

Changes in the Constitution were suggested,--new By-Laws, etc.,--to be proposed to, and voted upon by the Club.

Mrs. Johnson suggested a preliminary meeting of the Board of Management, to consider the names proposed a month before the election of new members.

The President, after some discussion had taken place, reminded us that our literary work was paramount to everything else in the Club; and that it ought not to be ever unnecessarily interfered with by other matters.

[21]

We were requested to give careful consideration--individually--to the subjects discussed at this meeting, before next Tuesday.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)