---
title: 1893-03-03 Special Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-03-03-special.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## Special Meeting. [March 3rd, 1893]

The Committee on Economics of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, of which Miss Mary Wilcox Brown is Chairman, having invited the Reverend J. C. Moran, Archdeacon of Maryland, to deliver an address before them, also invited their fellow-members to hold a special meeting of the Club to hear him, with them.

This Meeting was held on Friday, March 3rd, 1893, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets.

Archdeacon Moran’s Address was on “Women’s Guilds to Aid Woman’s Work.” He gave us some very interesting particulars of the work of himself and others in London, Paris, New York, Baltimore and elsewhere, among the poor; with especial regard to work among poor women.

A few words were said by the Reverend Dr. Leakin.

[59]

An animated discussion on “Woman’s Work and Wages” was carried on, in which Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, Miss [Edith] Duer, Miss [Fanny] Hoffman, Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown and others participated, with great interest.

The President spoke of the efficient young Chairman of the Committee on Economics, and congratulated the Committee on the work that it had done.

The meeting informally adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)