---
title: 1893-05-09 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-09-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[111]

## 84th Meeting [May 9, 1893]

The eighty-fourth meeting of the Woman’s LIterary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday May 9th, 1893, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets.

Mrs. Turnbull, the President[,] called the meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of May 2nd.

The announcement was made that two books have been presented to the Club, one by Miss Whitney, and one by professor Milton Whitney.

The names of new members which had received favorable action by the Board of Management — and no objection from the Club—where again read to the Club. They were six in number;—Mrs. Bertha Hall Ahrens,—Mrs. R. K. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley,—Miss Mary D. [Dorsey] Davis,—Mrs. Sidney [Clara B. Newman] Turner,—Mrs. Henry J. Oudesluys,—and Mrs. R. M. Wiley.

Mrs.[Caroline Canfield] Bullock, the Treasurer, read her yearly Report,—in this case,—dating from last November, when she accepted the office, until the present time. It was a clear and satisfactory statement of the items of receipts and expenditures,—showing good management, and avoidance of debt, and closing with a balance in the bank. The balance with which our treasurer began her work, was forty-eight dollars seventy-nine cents [$48.79],— Received up to May 1883, eight hundred thirty dollars one cent [$800.01], making the Assets eight hundred seventy eight dollars eighty cents—$878.80. The Expenditures were seven hundred twenty two dollars seventy two cents—$722.72—, leaving a Balance of one hundred fifty six dollars eight cents— $155.08. Miss [Mary F.] Grace said we are to be congratulated on

[112]

receiving such a Report,—and moved a vote of thanks to the Treasurer.

Our President said that we had never been in debt.

Miss Grace’s motion was seconded by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, and was carried without opposition.

The President showed us a cup and saucer presented to the Club by Miss [Eliza] Ridgely,—a beautiful specimen of gilding, looking like gold itself, which was the discovery and work of a woman.

It was announced [that] the meeting of the next Tuesday would be under the direction of the Committee on Current Criticism, of which Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann is chairman.

The meeting being held was under the direction of the Committee on Economics, under the Chairmanship of Miss Mary Wilcox Brown.

It was announced that we would be unable to have this evening the paper promised on our programme to be given by Miss [Jane] Zacharias.

Mrs. [W. H.] Anderson was called on to give us the Report of the work done by our Class in Economics. She told us that in the year 1891, a few—some six—of our members met, at the house of Miss [Charlotte de Macklot] Thompson, to study Political Economy. They began with the book of Mrs. Millicent Fawcett,—Fawcett being a name of a good omen since a daughter of that house has won the right to stand before the Senior Wrangler at Oxford. Our political economist studied the requisites of Production—Land—Labor, and Capital;—plodded through the problems belong to values and wages, supply and demand, bimettalism [bimetallism],—and Adam Smith’s four Canons of Taxation.[^bimetallism] Such fun as this went on until the brains felt bruised and battered; and the meetings generally

[^bimetallism]: Bimetallism is currency system accepting two metals (in this case, gold and silver) as legal tender, in a fixed ratio to one another. Smith's "four canons of taxation, outlined in _The Wealth of Nations_, include 1) equity; 2) certainty; 3) convenience; and 4) economy.

[113]

closed with a cup of tea, to refresh exhausted vitality. Mr. Thackeray, I believe, said Heaven meant kindly by women when tea was made.

When the warm weather came, the inspirer of the Political Economy Class had gone across the Atlantic; and soon the numbers dwindled, to two lone women; who, without hesitation, decided Political Economy to be a cold-weather study.

Beginning again with new courage in the autumn, the place of meeting was changed to the rooms of Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor; and the class studied several approved authors; including Professor Simon Newcomb and Mr. [John Stuart] Mill; and even made acquaintance with the works of Mr. Henry George. Mrs. [Cornelia M. B.] Anderson quoted to us the saying of a woman that the carrying out of one of Mr. George's theories was like the burning down the house to roast a pig. This woman would seem to relegate Mr. George back to the companionship of Charles Lamb’s prehistoric Chinaman, in the Essay on Roast Pig.[^Lamb2]

[^Lamb2]: Lamb's "A Dissertation Upon Roast Pig" included reference to an essay by Chinese philosopher Confucius on the discovery of the culinary technique of roasting meat. Henry George (1839-1897) was a noted economist whose socialist views, popularized in his book _Progress and Poverty,_ were widely espoused in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries.

Mrs. Anderson went on to describe the study accomplished and the work done by the Committee on Economics, after the moving into the handsome new quarters of our Club, and their having possession of our pleasant Committee room. She spoke of the meeting address by Archdeacon Moran, to which the whole Club was invited; and of the interest of other Committee meetings, to which other speakers and writers have contributed. Also of articles given at our general meetings; especially of the very interesting one of Miss [Eliza] Ridgley on the College Settlement in Philadelphia; and of that of Miss de Graffenried on The Housing of the Poor. Then of the vital interest that has been aroused in vital questions, in

[114]

the efforts of the present, and the hopes of the future.

Our programme promised us “A Talk about Pullman,” by Miss Mary Wilcox Brown. Miss Brown said that, before describing her visit to Pullman, which is now considered a suburb of Chicago, she would lead up to her subject by mentioning some of the things that have been done for ameliorating the condition of the laboring classes in America, elsewhere. She spoke of the difference between the conditions of the present and those of the past; the protection given to the laborer, of co-operation, and trades-unions. She told us of Robert Owens of England, and of many who followed him; of the Rockdale pioneers; of the work done in France, and in America, and even in our own city of Baltimore. She dwelt on the difference between work done for charity or philanthropy, and work done, on strict business principles, for the good of all concerned, now,—and henceforward. Mr. Pullman, she said, is working to prevent evil, not to cure it, and disclaims the name of philanthropist.

Miss Brown went on to Pullman alone, and arrived safely at the Hotel Florence,—named after Mr. Pullman’s daughter; he himself, being the owner of the whole place. She found the settlement clean, bright and attractive. There are twelve hundred houses, chiefly of brick,—not more than seventy five frame houses in the place. There is a park, and a public library of four thousand volumes, to which additions are often made. She described the Arcade Buildings, and also the halls in which the religious services of different denominations are held. Also the halls

[115]

for musical, literary and theatrical entertainment. Also of the loan and savings bank, which receives deposits of respectable amounts, especially on Saturday evenings, after the workmen are paid off. She spoke of the excellent sanitary arrangements, on which one million of dollars are said to have been spent. The work shops are comfortable, the dust of the furnaces is consumed, and not breathed. There are almost all languages talked, and almost all nationalities represented among the workmen. The best workmen are said to be the Swedes. The work is all piece work, not days-work; and the men generally work ten hours a day. The public schools are part of the system of Chicago. Almost everything for the Pullman cars is made at the Works, except the plush, curtain materials, china-ware and glass. At the hour for dinner the workmen come out, looking clean, and with their coats on. There is no direct profit sharing; but it seems to be made for the interest of all to do good work.

Mr. Pullman says that the time has not yet come for the workmen to own land in Pullman; but half a mile off in the country they can, and, to some extent, do, own houses of their own.

Miss Brown told us that there had never been a strike in Pullman;—that there were five doctors there, but no lawyer.

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull congratulated the Committee on Economics; which, with so young to chairman as theirs, had been able to add so much to the interest of our Club. 

Mrs. [Gertrude Pierce] Easby next gave us some account of the Cannon Foundry of the Krupps at Essen in 

[116]

Germany. She regretted that the facts she had to give us were not new,—but rather an old story. The Krupp Works are larger than those at Pullman, and our managed on the principle that it pays to take care of workmen, and make them comfortable. There are stores, where necessaries are furnished at something like cost rates. There are relief associations; there are special surgeons provided; also an oculist,—as working in iron is apt to be dangerous to the eyes. There is no theatre, however; for, as Mr. Conway says; “People who work from ten to twelve hours a day have no time to enjoy dramatic art.”

Mrs. [Cornelia M. B] Anderson next read a letter from Mr. Howard, a labor statistician, on co-operative unions in Baltimore. He told of an attempt made some time ago to buy coal in large quantities, at summer prices, and to sell it in the winter, at summer rates also;—which failed; owing to a lack of comprehension, or of appreciation, or the dislike of a new venture in those who were intended specifically to be benefitted by the plan.

Miss [Jenny] Nelson also gave us a letter from Mr. Howard, giving some information relating to the Tailors’ Co-operative Union, and to the garment cutters’ strike of some little time ago.

In the discussion that followed, it was recalled to us that workmen continually fail to appreciate that the enormous majority of men are _not_ fitted to be leaders; and many object to the semblance of being led.

Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat quoted the opinion of Frederick Maurice that the principles of Christianity must be applied to trade and industry, and must be

[117]

proved not incompatible with them. She spoke of the work done in Boston by the Church of the Carpenter; where co-operation is carried on to give employment to those who need it, in the name of the great Founder of such co-operation. It is this kind of work that can add the Keystone to the arch that shall bridge the gulf so long yawning before us.

Miss Comins next spoke of the beautiful building on the cup and saucer presented to the Club by Miss Ridgely; and said that Miss Ely, the Discover of the new process, had wished her sister to introduce her to a Mr. Cooley, who would be likely to buy her right in the secret of this production. The interview was polite, but amusing; as Miss Ely did not dare to make experiments in Mr. Cooley’s presence, nor to tell him enough of the secret to make him take the risk of a chance—which might not be the main chance to him.

Miss Comins however believed now that the discoverer of the process I had made arrangements by which it would be carried on under her own direction.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)