---
title: 1893-03-07 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-03-07-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 77th Meeting [March 7, 1893]

The seventy seventh meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, March 7th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, called the meeting to order.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the two meetings on February 14th and February 21st; which were adopted.

The President said a few words in reference to the meeting of last Friday, March 3rd, under the direction of the Committee on Economics, for which a general invitation had been extended to the whole Club; and at which an address had been given by Archdeacon Moran on “Women’s Guilds to aid Woman’s Work”; and the efforts made for their improvement. Mrs. Turnbull went on to speak of the meetings of our Club Committee on Economics,

[60]

held on Friday afternoons in our Committee room; and said she hoped as many of our Club members as possible would take an interest in its efforts to do good, where good is needed to be done.

Notice was also given of the meetings of the Committee on Fiction, on Friday mornings at eleven o’clock, in our Committee room.

The President then announced that the Programme for our meeting about to be held had been prepared by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, the Chairman of the Committee on Poetry; but that, to our great regret, Miss Reese was unable to be with us this afternoon, owing to the death of her brother. In deference to her, and her affliction, it had been concluded to postpone her programme until she could be with us again, and personally do justice to the care she had bestowed upon it.

Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown made a motion for the expression of our sympathy with Miss Reese in her present sorrow; which was adopted.

Mrs. Turnbull then read a poem by Miss Reese, which seemed appropriate to our thoughts of her on this occasion. It was called: "The Shepherd comes, the Shepherd goes,"--and tells us of the Good Shepherd, "who leads his happy sheep to pastures green and deep,”-- “whose call each one must wait”; and of the little lamb who followed him to the fold,”--all in Miss Reese’s own musically measured words.

Miss Bessie Clark next gave us a paper on “Illustrations and Illustrative Art.”

[61]

She took us back to the beginning of literature to Egyptian papyrus and hierogliphics [hieroglyphics], to Greek, Latin and Byzantine Art, on down to the laboriously illustrated and illustrated books of the middle ages. Those last, she said, were not by any means all the work of the monks, but also of an army of workers under the patronage of kings, princes and magnates; and that they bridged over the gulf between classic writing and modern printing. She spoke of Black Letter books, some of which are of artistic value also. She went on to the days of Renaissance, with their treasures of art, varied and wonderful; and of the days when illuminated, hand-pictured and hand-written books began to give place to printed books.

Miss Clark then spoke of the art of engraving,--ancient and modern,-- of Egyptian and Babylonian seals, of old intaglios, and of wood engravings,--of niello and enamel. She spoke of the old true artist engravers, of Dürer and Van Leyden, who could put atmosphere into prints

She reminded us of Miss [Annie C.] Volck’s very interesting article on “Etching,” given to us last Fall.

Miss Clark then went on to speak of Dry-Point, and Mezzotint, and Photography.

She told us that story related by Horace Walpole, in which he makes the soldierly Prince Rupert, the inventor of Mezzotint engraving, as well as of the “drops” called by his name:--of how, being in exile after the death of his unfortunate uncle, King Charles, he

[62]

once watched a soldier cleaning his gun, and found in the half-rough and half-bright surface, a new artistic idea.[^mezzotint]

[^mezzotint]: Prince Rupert of the Rhine, Duke of Cumberland (1619-1682) was a German-English nobleman who was credited with discovering the technique of making "toughened glass" by dropping molten glass into cold water. He apparently told people he was inspired to invent the mezzotint printing process by watching a soldier scrape rust from his gun (which would raise a cloud of rust from the barrel which would then settle back on the metal in an even film, much like the mezzotint process), and while Walpole popularized this apocryphal origin story, it has since been credited to the artist-soldier Ludwig von Siegen in 1642.

From the Art of Illustrations, in its various branches, Miss Clark went on to speak of the artists who have been eminent illustrators, and of their most illustrious works.

She also exhibited, in illustration of her article, a number of engravings, etchings, and photographs, which were highly appreciated by the members of the Club.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer then told us of a wonderful old illustrated Missal she had seen and carefully examined. She said that, fifty years ago, she spent some time at the house of Mr. George Ticknor,[^Ticknor] in Boston, and enjoyed his library and its surroundings,--which no one that had ever seen them would be likely to forget. That Mr. Ticknor had picked up this treasure of a Missal in Florence; where it had—-probably--been taken out of the ducal palace during some of the revolutionary disturbances of that city. It had, Mrs. Latimer said, belonged to Maddalena--a German princess,--who married one of the Grand Dukes of Tuscany, and it was one of her wedding presents. It was beautifully ornamented with pictured saints, as other missals have been; and besides, contained the painted miniatures of a number of the intimate friends of the princess, and also their autographs. And these were the great and distinguished people of their time.
{^Ticknor]: George Ticknor (1791-1871), with James Fields, ran one of the most prestigious publishing firms in the 19th-century United States. WLCB member Sarah Holland Adams was the sister of Annie Fields, James Fields's second wife.

[63]

When this princess said her prayers, she could feel herself accompanied by those near and dear to her.

At the present day, the value of this book even as an autograph album, or as a picture gallery, would be hard to estimate, by those of us who love,--and who does not?--the things that are lovely, of the olden time.

The announcement was then made that the next meeting would be under the direction of the Committee on Fiction.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)