---
title: 1893-01-17 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-01-17-BOM.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## [Board of Managers] Meeting of January 17th [1893].

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literay Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday afternoon, January 17th, 1893, at No. 12 East Centre Street.

There were eleven members present.

The President Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull presided.

The President proposed a resolution that out proceedings in Executive Meetings should be considered strictly confidential. She thought each member would feel in honor bound not to speak outside of the Executive Board of anything done in Executive meetings. To prevent the possibility of mistakes she asked the unanimous consent of the Board to this resolution for the entirely confidential character of our proceedings in the Board meetings. The resolution was seconded by Mrs. Sioussat, and adopted.

The President then read the the book of Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller, "The Woman's Club", some excellent rules on this subject.

Some discussion arose on the powers of the Board of Management. Miss Ridgeley called out attention to the statement that the whole Club, as well as the Constitution is superior to the Board of Management.

[8]

With regards to changes in our Constitution, reference was made to Article VII Section 2 of that document on By-Laws and changes.

The discussion was resumed from the former meeting on the question: "Whether the change of the time of meeting for voting on the names of new members was a change in, or violation of the Constitution?

The President referred to Cushing's Parliamentary Law "On the Dispensing with Rules by General Consent". The point was made that at the full meeting of the Club, on January 3rd, the proposed change of time was announced and the reason given; which was: that no new names had been formally received for membership--for well understoon reasons; though several had been undoubtedly expected, having been mentioned by several of our members. The Club having then made no objection, was supposed to have consented to the postponement of the consideration of names of new members.

Miss Ridgely said she thought the Club could not so consent to do this, which she considered a

[9]

change in the Constitution.

The President thought there was no real change.

Miss Szold said there was no special provision in the Constitution against the action taken.

The President thought the second meeting was in pursuance of an adjournment of the first one,--to meet again for the completion of unfinished business. We were reminded that, last Spring, a Salon day had been changed, without objection.

The Report of the Committee to ask for legal advice on the subject under discussion was now called for.

The Committee, Mrs. Johnson and Miss Ridgely had consulted four lawyers, and Mrs. Johnson proceeded to read their replies.

[These letters are so important that the Secretary has thought best to copy and preserve them for the benefit of the Club in the future.]

The first letter was that of Colonel Marshall--which had just been received by Miss Ridgely:

"Glenn Building, 12 St. Paul St. 
Baltimore Md, January 17, 1893.

"Mrs. Wm. Woolsey Johnson and Miss Ridgely:--

"Ladies:--

"I have considered the ques-

[10]

tions submitted by you this morning, and have come to the conclusion that, as the Constitution of the 'Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore now stands, the meeting of the Board of Management for the approval of new members, must be held on the two days named in Art. IV, Sec.7 of the Constitution. I have no doubt that if the Board should begin to consider names submitted to it upon either of the days appointed for that purpose, and was unable to complete the business of that day, it could adjourn from day to day in order to complete the work. But in the case submitted, the work was not begun on the day appointed by the Constitution, but the meeting was adjourned to a subsequent day, at which the business of approving new members was taken up. This I think is not authorized by the Constitution.

"In the case of a regularly incorporated body, the law generally provides that elections and other acts, required to be performed on a designated day, may be performed on a subsequent day, which is a recognition of the fact that with-

[11]

out such express authority, such elections etc., could not be held except on the appointed day. There is no such provision in your Constitution, and I think that action on the approval of new members by the Board, can only be validly taken on the two days designated in Section 7, Article IV, subject to the qualification that if the action be begun on a day designated, and not completed for and cause, it may be completed at an adjourned meeting. But action must be begun on one of the appointed days, and the adjourned meeting can take no new action, but can only complete what had been properly begun on the day legally designated.

"With great respect
"Your Ob't Ser'v't,
"Charles Marshall."

After some discussion it was agreed to pass on to the letter of Judge Phelps.

Mrs. Johnson's letter to Judge Phelps giving the points on which legal opinions were requested was also read to us; and as it is important--having, as we understood, been similar to those sent to the other lawyers consulted by

[12]

her--it may be well to preserve it.

"Judge Charles E. Phelps,--

"Dear Sir,--

"I have been requested as a member of a Committee of the Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club to obtain the opinion of gentlemen familiar with such matters, on the following points.

The Constitution of the Club directs that, "The Meeting of the Board for the approval of new members shall be held twice a year, on the first Tuesday in May and the first Tuesday and January".

"On the first Tuesday in January, owing to the death in the family of the Secretary, the list of names was not presented, and the Board, with whom the election rests, postponed action to a special Meeting, called for the purpose, the following week.

"At that Meeting action was taken.

"It has since been doubted whether the Constitutional requirement to take action at a specified time was complied with in this case, and whether action on the succeed-

[13]

ing Tuesday is not invalid.

"As your name was suggested by several members of the Board, I take the liberty of addressing you, hoping you will be so kind as to give me a reply by Tuesday morning.

Very respectfully yours,
L. L. Johnson.
32 East Preston St.
January 15th, 1893.

Judge Phelps's Reply.

No. 1 (Thirteenth) St. West
"Baltimore 15 January 1893
"Mrs. L. L. Johnson.

"Dear Madam,--

In reply to your esteemed favor of the 15th instant, I have the honor to say:--

"That the "special meeting" called for the week following the stated meeting on the first Tuesday in January may be fairly considered in substance, if not in form, merely an adjournement, in good faith, and for due cause, of the stated meeting; and consequently, the action taken at such adjourned meeting would, in my opinion, be a substantial

[14]

compliance with the Constitutional provision.

"Very respectfully,
"C. E. Phelps."

Mr. Thomas J. Hodson's Reply,

"Baltimore January 15. 1893.

"Dear Madam,--

"Your letter of today is just received and I reply with great pleasure.

"The provision of your Constitution of which you speak, is in my opinion merely directory and not mandatory. If so, then the election a week afterwards is perfectly good as a compliance with it.

"If I am mistaken and the provision is mandatory, then in that case if the action of the Committee or Board of Management was acted on by the members at the meeting on the first Tuesday in January and endorsed by them then the action of the special meeting is still a compliance with the Constitution in this respect.

"Your letter is not clear as to how and when the special meeting was called. If however it was the action

[15]

of the members and taken as soon after the first Tuesday in January as practicable, I have no doubt of its entire legality.

"I remain "Yours very truly
"Thomas J. Hodson."

From Mr. Nicholas Brewer's Letter,--all that related to the business on hand.

"The question you proposed could be more satisfactorily answered if I had before me your entire rules. In most deliberative bodies it has been found necessary to make provision for the suspension on rules in cases of emergencies. This generally requires a vote of two thirds of the members present. If there is no such provision in your Constitution, the practice where a certain act is required to be done on a certain day, and something occurs to prevent its being done, is to adjourn the meeting to a certain day, and when it re-assembles, on that day, it is considered in law a continuation of the original meeting. If the proceedings of the original meeting have not been recorded it would be in order for

[16]

some member to move that the proceedings of the meeting of the first Tuesday in January be corrected to read as follows: "On motion the Board then adjourned to re-assemble on the -- day of January, at etc." Then in the same way correct the proceedings of the second meeting as follows: "The Board reassembled in the pursuance of adjournment." These corrections I think would be perfectly allowable, and if they can be made unanimously, all the better.

"When the election was postponed to a certain day, it was the intention that a legal election should be held at that time, and it may be lawfully assumed that such an adjournment was intended, as would make it a lawful election. Or you may use the word "valid" where I have above written the words "legal" and "lawful".

"I think however that the postponement of the election to a certain day was equivalent to an adjournment to that day.

"The correction of the minutes by a unanimous vote, would place the matter beyond all cavil or doubt.

"N. Brewer."

[17]

Some discussion followed the reading of these letters. A vote on the correction of the Minutes was proposed by the President.

Miss Ridgely proposed that the action of the Board in postponing the election should stand on this special occasion, but that more care should be exercised in future in this respect. This amendment was not adopted.

Mrs. Johnson made the motion that the meeting held on the second Tuesday in January be considered Constitutional, and shall stand as an adjourned meeting, and be so recorded by correction of the minutes. It was carried,--with one dissenting vote. Miss Ridgely explained that she did not consider the action Constitutional.

The President said she thought we had escaped a great danger. The consequences of seeming to fail to consider the names of new members at the beginning of the year might have been serious. It might not have been recognized that death in the family of the Recording Secretary and illness in that of the President had caused an unusual irregularity and delay in the affairs of the Club.

[18]

A vote of thanks was given to Mrs. Johnson and to Miss Ridgely for the thoroughness of their action with regard to taking legal advice.

A note was received from a member of the Club objecting to one of the names voted for as a new member on the second Tuesday in January, and asking for a reconsideration of the vote on that name. It was voted to lay this note on the table, for the present, and to omit the reading of the name is question at the meeting of the Club about to be held.

Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Sioussat, the Committee appointed to visit Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, with regard to her not of objections sent to the Board of Management, and considered in the special meeting of January 14th, reported that their interview with her had been a very pleasant one;--that her own tact would probably suggest her taking no further action with regard to the subject on which she had written to Miss Haughton; and that she apparently realized that nothing more was to be done in that matter.

Thanks were returned to the three ladies who have done most for us in this matter. To one of them--Miss

[18]

Haughton--the President especially gave her thanks for having filled her place for some weeks with satisfactory results.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)