---
title: 1893-05-02 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-05-02-meeting.html
season: third
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[103]

## 83rd Meeting.

The eighty third meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, May 2nd, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President, Mrs. Turnbull was in the chair.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting on Tuesday, April 18th.

The Recording Secretary also read the names of some new members presented at the meeting of the Board of Management, just adjourned, which had been approved by the Board, and were now duly submitted to the Club.

The President announced that our next meeting would be under the direction of the Committee on Economics. Also that are present meeting would be under the direction of the Committee on Fiction, of which Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock and Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett were the Chairmen.

Our programme called for two articles on the Definitions of the Romantic and the Realistic Schools of Fiction;—but it was announced that the first Essay would be omitted, and that only the one on the Realistic School would be read to us. The name of the author of this article was not given. It was read by Miss [Annie S.] Perot.

It spoke of Realism, tersely defined, as truth, a statement of facts, with nothing extenuated, and nought set down in malice. Realism may give us noble ideals of life, but it does not analyze motives; it deals only with results. It portrays life often in humble conditions, but it needs not to describe vulgarities,—nor to thrust them before us;—it ought to preserve the dignity of literature. Theories are not denied,—but only recognized by their results. Realism may laugh at Romanticism, and tell us that man can not live on love alone, but all 

[104]

the realities of life belong to it, while life remains.

We may be reminded of Mr. [John] Ruskin’s assertion that: “Finding the world of Literature more or less divided into Thinkers and Seers, I believe we shall find also that the Seers are wholly the greater race of the two.”

Our next article was by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, and was read by Mrs. [Morton Wortham] Sloan. It was on “Morality in Fiction.”

Mrs. Whitelock [spoke] of moral Fiction as not that which is especially opposed to immorality, but as that which is pure and unhurtful. She spoke of those who read and admire Zola; and yet who would abhor and find disgusting in actual life scenes he paints. She reminded us of the late “Agnostic Novels” also. Then of the apparently well-meaning stories which have a bad lack of moral tone, and no comprehension of the higher life, or of what Wordsworth calls “high thinking.” But she thought it is possible to teach without preaching, and those of us who have young daughters and nieces well perhaps be disposed to give them the old-fashioned moral novel to read.

Mrs. Whitelock spoke of Hyperion, and of the works of “Miss Mulock,” as many of us continue to call her. We may call them “romantic,” but they give us high ideals, and we can hope and believe that such ideals will not fail us in the future.

Our programme promised us several short stories; and these had been written under the direction of the Fiction Committee. The subject was the same in every case, and it has been given to the several riders by the Committee. The subject was the meeting, after separation, of a man and a woman who had in lovers;—and each story was limited to two thou-

[105]

sand words.

The first of the stories was written by Miss Bennett, and read by herself. The title was “Shadows.”

She described a little town, half-buried in snow, the trees bending under their heavy white covering, while a hard, beaten track, shining like silver, led up to the top of the hill. At one end of this path a tall, thin man was beating his hands together. From the other came a short and stout women, with black hair and eyes, who carried a basket on her arm; and was thinking aloud. The subject of her audible meditation was the momentous question of turning and repairing a dress, which had not only seen good service, but had apparently been turned and repaired before.

“Gimp at seventeen cents a yard won’t do, and the dressmaker won’t skimp,” she said. “Ruffles would be better, taken out of the back breadth, and then nobody would know it for the same dress.”

Suddenly she recognizes Luke Rollins, and with the voice and manner of bygone years tells him that he is the last man she would have expected to see that day;—well he answers that “Ca’line Smoot” was the last woman he would have looked for there.

“Ca’line Smallwood,” she answered, adding that the old rhyme said: “Change the name and not the letter, change for words and not for better;[“] but she wouldn’t say that in her case this had been true. She told him, moreover, that she was staying there with her “Cousin Lisbeth.”

As they talked on the woman was saying to herself, “I won’t ask after Maria. She played me a mean trick.” Nor did the man ask after Jonah Smallwood, his successful rival. And so they went on talking, with

[105]

the shadows of Maria and Jonah Smallwood, unbidden,—forbidden recognition,—but actively felt.

The woman said Cousin Lisbeth was most particular, and it wouldn’t do to keep her table waiting for supper. But then they talked of [a] winter evening, long before, when there had been music and dancing, and they were both sure nobody else could ever play as well as the old colored fiddler did then. Still, no matter what subject they discussed, Ca’line whispered, “I won’t ask after Maria.”

But it last when Luke turned to go, she called after him, “Luke, how’s Maria?”

“Maria?” said Luke, “Why, Maria’s dead. She died five years ago. Poor Maria changed very much before she died. How’s Jonah?”

“He’s dead too,—eighteen months ago,” answered Ca’line. “He was a good provider.”

“I’m going your way Ca’line,” said Luke, “and I can carry the basket just as well as not.[“]

The moon rose, and they thought of the new moon of a time long past, when they looked over their shoulders to make wishes they believed it would come true.

Then, like overgrown children, they repeated their wishes as they walked on did the new moon that was rising again, now.
The next story was; “An Episode in Chamouni,[“] written and read by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord.

She told of a party traveling in Switzerland. It comprised an American lady, not unconscious nor unappreciative of the grand scenery around then, but sometimes constrained to yawn,—her little daughter,—her husband who was a pros-

[107]

perous American, and a Frenchman with whom he talked about money, while both of the two latter appeared unmoved by the grandeur and sublimity of Nature.

“Mrs. Irving is always tired,” says her husband. She sympathizes with the mountaineers as he notices the laborious life they lead; but when she offers them money, and they refuse it, she is reminded that they are peasants, but not beggars.

Reaching a hotel in the evening, and feeling tired of the carriage, she goes out with her little daughter to take a walk. They find such Alpine roses and blue bells as they have seen nowhere else, but they also lose their way.

And here she meets again the man who had put the span of half the world between them, after that time when they had met and parted, in England, years before. He asks whether she is happy in her worship of the golden calf, and he claims the right to ask, because of all she once condemned him to suffer. She answers that she has two dear children, and an indulgent husband. She hopes he had forgiven and forgotten the past, and that the world has been kind to him also.

He picked [up] the tired child, and told her he was Mr. Gray no longer. Two cousins had died, making him a Lord. If she had known that would happen, it would have been unnecessary to sell her birthright. But they were quits,—and each knew that another mile-stone on life’s road had been passed.

On their return, when she introduced her friend, Lord Hatton[,] to her husband, it was a little difficult to interpret the artless prattle of the child to the money-king about the golden calf,

[108]

And also afterwards, when the young Lord presents a beautiful woman as his wife, She says, “I shall always thank Chamouni for this meeting”;—and her husband says, “In America, you know, we are all lords.”

The next story was by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, and was called: “So Runs the World Away.”

Adolphus had gone away from Penelope 10 years earlier, and women learn much in that length of time. She kept his photograph,—and he had said “Auf Wiedersehen”; —but he had not come back yet, and perhaps he did not get many of her thoughts.

There were rivals for her love,—two artists, especially, who hated each other as [only] rivals in love, and artists can. The beautiful piece of work by artist number one,—representing Penelope in the act of refusing the suit of Philander—artist number two—was very much admired. Some people said there must be a Ulysses somewhere else,—otherwise she could not afford to wait. These of course were her dear, dear friends.

One day Adolphus comes to call, and is asked to come back to dine. While he is gone, she sits down to the piano, to think. Perhaps she must take a poor counterfeit, if not a reality;—but the heart once warm may have grown careless. The ten years might have been longer still;—there might have been some one else.

In due course of time they were married. Where they happy? Well, yes;—but she has devoted herself to music, and Adolphus has hated it.

Miss Bennett gave us the Minutes of the Fiction Class of our Club, written by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock.

There had been much original work done, consist-

[109]

ing of stories, essays, critiques; reviews of Mr. [William Dean] Howells’s sometimes very unjust criticisms, and of those by Mr. Brander Matthews.[^Howells] The attendance had always been good, and the interest unflagging.

[^Howells] Howells and Matthews (1852-1929) were editors and literary critics; Howells was a longtime editor of the _Atlantic Monthly_ and Matthews wrote criticism for the _New York Times_ and became a professor at Columbia University in 1892.

Our programme have been shortened, and Mrs. Turnbull had been requested to read to us some extracts from her own last book, “Val Maria,” and she had consented to do so.

She read first the opening of the book, to give the setting of the story. She painted the estate of Val Maria, and the home of count Louis de Montal, with his wife in only child, Felix, as a spot of seclusion and peace; with the statue in shrine of the Madonna of Val Maria,—a statue not beautiful artistically, or even capable of being beautified by the mellowing touch of time; but sacred to the village-folks, who are free to find on this Virgin’s face whatever expression it was in their hearts to give her.

It was at the time of the Directory, the Reign of Terror was passed, and the young general Bonaparte was rising into notice. The life of the village in the life of the castle unfold before us naturally and attractively. The child Felix is beautiful and enthusiastic,—too spiritual for length of days, and with the purity unsullied by earthly evil. The Count has a knightly soul, and, giving the First Consul credit for an absorbing and disinterested love for France, accepts the position of senator, scarcely confessing to himself that he had begun to count on Bonaparte as the savior of his country.

The child shares his fathers enthusiasm, and

[110]

makes of the First Consul, and afterwards of the Emperor, in his own mind, the truest and noblest of heroes.

Mrs. Turnbull read the scene in the studio, where the boy-Artist shows his father his studies for the head of Napoleon, some day to be put into marble. The father can only listen to the child who—

[poetry]
“—still is nature’s priest;
And by the vision splendid
Is on his way attended.”
[/poetry]

although—

[poetry]
“—the man perceives it die away.
And fade into the light of common day.”
[/poetry]

Mrs. Turnbull also read to us a scene in Florence, where the mother takes her son to what had been her own early home, and the boy is delighted by the wonders he finds there.

Finally we were given the last scene in the book. The boy has made the bust of his beloved ruler of men,—as his pure eyes saw him. This last scene is a striking piece of word-painting. The time is during the fateful “hundred days”[^100];—and the world-worn emperor is brought face-to-face with the image of himself,—as he perhaps might and ought to have been,—in the presence of the image’s creator, the youthful sculptor, lying calmly waiting for “the unbidden guest,” in “the beauty of holiness,” in

[^100]: The "Hundred Days" marked the final stage of the rule of Napoleon Bonaparte, the 110 days between his return to Paris on Mar. 20, 1815 from exile on the island of Elba to the second restoration of King Louis XVIII on July 8, 1815.

[poetry]
“—the faith that looks through death.” [/poetry]

The thanks of the Club having been given to our president for her reading; the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Athird)