---
title: A Christmas poem from Elizabeth Latimer
layout: page
permalink: /2019-12-21.html
---
<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

## A Christmas poem from Elizabeth Latimer
#### Jean Lee Cole, December 21, 2019

The women of the WLCB loved Christmas. I mean, they *loved* Christmas—all twelve days of it, too. One of their most cherished traditions was their annual Twelfth Night celebration in early January, where they threw open the doors to the Club rooms at the Maryland Academy of Sciences building located at 105 W. Franklin St. and presented readings, dramatic performances, music, and refreshments to an appreciative throng.

They wrote about Christmas, too. The first selection included in *Parole Femine: The Words and Lives of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore* is a charming novelette by Jane Zacharias, *The Newsboys’ Christmas Party*, in which the female protagonist, with the help of a kindly newspaper editor, organizes a dinner and party for the ragged but hardworking newsboys of Baltimore.

Here, we share an excerpt of a poem by one of the Club’s most prolific members, Elizabeth Wormeley Latimer. It was one of seven she had planned, based on W. H. G. Kingston’s modernization of Richard Johnston’s *Seven Champions of Christendom* (1597). As far as we know, only three were published: “St. George and the Dragon” in the April 1880 issue of the children’s magazine St. Nicholas, “St. Patrick” in the March 17, 1888 issue of *Harper’s Weekly*, and the poem included here, “Saint Anthony,” published in the January 1891 *Harper’s Monthly*. The publications corresponded to each of the saint’s days for each figure; St. Anthony’s feast day is Jan. 17. (She also published another “saint poem,” “The Legend of Saint Nicholas,” in the December 1886 *Harper’s Monthly*.)

Latimer may very well have written poems for all seven champions of Christendom. She was called upon repeatedly to read them at WLCB meetings. However, we have not located either publications or manuscript for poems on St. Andrew, St. Denis, St. David, or St. James.

St. Anthony is the patron saint of domesticated animals and is often depicted with a pig. These animals are at the center of Latimer’s poem, which relates their rescue of two orphan children, Linette and Paul. The poem is a great example of traditional 19th-century poetry. You might enjoy reading it to your children on Christmas Eve.

*Read the poem [here](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/item.html?id=395)*

*This content was migrated from the The WLCB log: Documenting the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore 1890-1941*