---
title: Why the WLCB opposed suffrage
layout: page
permalink: /2019-08-19.html
---
<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

## Why the WLCB opposed suffrage
#### Jean Lee Cole, August 19, 2019

We have been puzzled and disappointed throughout our research on the WLCB by their reluctance to embrace suffrage. Many, in fact, were adamant “antis,” the name given to those opposing the women’s vote. This group happened to coincide with Club leadership, and as a result very little by way of pro-suffrage expression appears in any of the Club documents. Members who worked for the women’s vote did so outside the Club meetings.

How could these women, who sought artistic and professional independence and autonomy, NOT want the right to participate as full citizens?

A key reason, as documented in [this op-ed](https://www.baltimoresun.com/opinion/op-ed/bs-ed-op-0819-suffrage-maryland-20190819-ok6udh5235ap7koomevc6owiuu-story.html) by Goucher history prof Jean Baker appearing in today’s *Baltimore Sun*, can be encapsulated in a single word: racism. They were willing to sacrifice their own right to vote in order not to extend it to black women.

After the 19th Amendment passed, it was left up to the individual states to ratify and implement it in state law. And in Maryland, Baker writes, “Democratic legislators argued against women moving beyond the domestic sphere into a male public space and also expressed their fears about enfranchising black women.”

It’s mind-boggling to think that women were so committed to white superiority that they were willing to sacrifice their own rights. It’s mind boggling, but true. And it’s worth keeping in mind that people will overwhelmingly opt for self-interest over equality when given the choice.

Amazingly, Maryland did not ratify the amendment until 1941, which was also the year the WLCB officially disbanded. A revealing coincidence, one might say.

*This content was migrated from the The WLCB log: Documenting the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore 1890-1941*