---
title: 1893-09-26 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-09-26-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[37]

## Board of Management Meeting. September 26th, 1893.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met after the Summer vacation on Tuesday, September 26th, 1893, at their Committee room on the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. Seven members attended this meeting;--the President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent,--Second Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtauld Osburne] Haughton,--the Recording Secretary, Miss [Lydia] Crane,--the Treasurer, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock,--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Miss [Mary F.] Grace and Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann.

The President announced that we were to consider the purchasing of some furniture, needed for the Committee room, and also for the large room in which we hold our meetings.

The question of book-cases and chairs for the large room,--of a lamp;--and, for the small room, a table, curtains, and a divan, the latter article to be made of a long box covered and cushioned, which might also serve as a receptacle for papers we did not wish to destroy.

It was also proposed to paint the fireplace in the Committee room, and to make it more ornamental than it is as present.

Dualities, materials and prices

[38]

were also discussed. Miss Haughton suggested that our room should be a cozy one, not stiff, nor uninviting.--Miss Grace said that we could speak more bravely with a pleasant environment than otherwise. Rocking chairs were proposed--and opposed. We were reminded that the meetings of our Committees in this room are sometimes four or five hours long.

It was agreed to appropriate $125.00 for furnishing and improving the Committee room.

The question of extending the platform in the large room, across to meet the wall on each side, was proposed, and decided; as it was considered desirable. It was suggested that the officers of the Club should sit with the President on the platform.

The question of the advisability of buying--or renting--chairs was discussed; and the majority voted in favor of buying them.

The Treasurer said that to buy book-cases and chairs, after the platform, and to do all proposed for the large room, would probably cost $175.00. She made a motion that $300.00 be appropriated for the furnishing of both rooms,--which was carried.

A Committee on Furnishing and

[39]

Decoration was proposed, and agreed to. The choice of this Committee was difficult, and it was not known certainly whether some members suggested as suitable for their duties were in the city, and the time was limited in which the work should be done.

Finally Miss Haughton, Mrs. Lord, Miss Grace and Mrs. Dammann were appointed as the Committee on Furnishing and Decoration.

The question of promoting the study of Elocution among our members also engaged our attention, for a little while.

The question of appointing a Chairman of the House Committee; or Steward, as the President's Assistant, who shall do--officially--the work which has been done for us--without official appointment--by our Second Vice President was also discussed. Finally it was moved that our Second Vice President should have charge of Stewardship officially of the housekeeping necessary for our monthly entertainments, etc.,--as the President's Assistant. The motion was seconded, and carried.

Miss Haughton then gave us information of an Article to be published in "The American Woman," on Women's Clubs, written by Miss [Elizabeth] Bisland, one of the editors of the Cosmopolitan, and in which an account of our Club is to appear. A request has

[40]

been made for a Photograph of our Club in its meeting room on a social evening; and also for Photographs of the Officers of the Club. Also for some account of the literary work done by our Club; of our Committee work; and of our professional workers. The request received a favorable answer.

The Recording Secretary proposed that the invitations to visitors should be issued by either of the two Secretaries, without having to be sent back and forth, in submitting them to a Committee on Invitations. The proposition was agreed to;--and so ordered by the President. The Secretary also spoke of limiting the number of invitations given more strictly,--but this subject was deferred.

The question of making Mrs. R. W. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer an Honorary Member of the Club was discussed; also, whether it could be done at this time. The Article of the Constitution "On New Members" was read to us; but we were reminded that Mrs. Latimer was not a new member; also that there was a precedent for the appointing of honorary members by the Board of Management, without waiting for the election of new members. The motion to make Mrs. Latimer an honorary member was made by Miss Crane, and seconded by Miss Haughton; and carried without opposition. The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)