---
title: 1893-10-10 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-10-10-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[144]

## 87th Regular Meeting (October 10th, 1893).

The 87th Regular meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, October 10th, 1893. In the absence of the President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, a Vice President, presided, and called the meeting to order

The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting on October 3rd.

The first article on the programme was an unpublished story by our former fellow member, the late Mrs. Mary Spear Tiernan, which her relatives think was finished a short time before her death. The manuscript was read by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, who told us that as it was a 16 chapter novel, it had been necessary to leave out as much as possible, without spoiling the story. Four chapters she had left at home and would endeavor to condense the rest. The latter part of it was said to have been written in Mrs. Tiernan's last illness. The story was entitled "Circumstances."

The first chapter was called "Mischief." The first scene was laid in Central Park, New York City.

The characters introduced were two infants (two begin with the most important), two excessively Hibernian specimens of the class borne in cap

[145]

and apron, and two boys of the type described by Sir Walter Scott "the self-willed imp"--"half a plague and half a jest." The nurses discover that they came over in the same ship from Ireland, but before they have time for further personal communications the advent of a military procession--of course[--] engages all their attention for a few moments. Of this the elfish boys take advantage to exchange the children, putting NorMa's charge "the 'by'"--into the carriage of Bridget's charge--"the gurrul" and they converse. Then after carefully shading the children's faces, they call the attention of the nurses['] minds to a few drops of rain beginning to fall, and hurry their victims homewards.

Another slight circumstance, the crossing of a street for no special reason, causes a gentleman, at the beginning of the showers[,] to go into a restaurant unknown to him; there to fall into temptation which doth so easily beset him. He is drawn into a drunken fight, in which he kills a man, a stranger to him.

In the shock of the event to which the whole more or less drunken crowd, he manages to escape, leaving the remembrance of his face with only one of the number of frightened witnesses. He goes home to hasten by 12 hours an already arranged trip to Europe. His invalid wife overcome by this culmination of anxieties, is carried on the ship, the same night, having just before her husband's terrible home coming told by Bridget that her one baby girl has come in

[146]

from its airing asleep, and it would be a pity to wmake her. Bridget having discovered the exchange has been praying for a miracle to save her from ill consequences, and the prayer seems to have been answered, for she manages to escape to the shore again after carrying the child on board the ship.

When the sick mother regains consciousness and strength, she is told that her little girl has died, and been buried in the sea;, and later, that her husband had taken a fancy to a little waif of a boy on the ship.

The other nurse takes her substituted child to the boy's nursery, lands it in the cradle, and escapes also.

Then the boy's father advertises, employs detectives and at last starts off to travel in search of his only child, having committed the little girl to the care of the good sisters in a convent.

That the guilty husband diesd, the remaining principal characters meet each other in Switzerland, the father saves his son's life as that of a little acquaintance only, that the would be avenger of the homicide has to give up his vengeappearance, that the living parents of the two changelings fall in love with each other, and recover the children belonging to each and to both of them, that one of the changers], grown up and duly repentant finds himself at last forgiven, is all evolved gracefully, and with those little turns and expressions, and side sentiments--true and humorous--with

[147]

which Mrs. Tiernan was accustomed to please and entertain us in her books and in her conversation, and in the little speeches we liked much to listen to from her in the early days of our Club.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Edmund [Martha Lee] Jenkins, and was on "Cultivating Taste for the True Ideal in Works of Fiction." She spoke of Idealism and of Realism, and of the true and the false distinctions that have been made between them, of the ideas of love and beauty that may be found in apparently commonplace lives. She quoted from Thomas Carlyle his severe criticism of the wretched novels that are written, and of the wretched girls who read them, and think that they can write such works also.

The mother in such novels, is either a whining simpleton or a schemer, the future husband a prince, charming with oriental splendor, or representing blackest crime.

We were reminded of Aristotle's ideas of painting men as men--faithfully but painting them fairer than they are.

We were told of two pictures, one of a coarse girl, and the other of a voluptuous woman, both ugly whether life-like or not. That some things seemed to be called ideal, because unnatural.

Also of the reaction into Realism. But the true writer selects the best of all that is before him. The parting of the lovers in Schiller's Don Carlos was recalled to us which leaves

[148]

the reader with a sadness, but a desire for good which haunts him ever afterwards.

Mrs. [Martha Lee] Jenkins spoke of [William] Thackeray, [Edward] Bulwer[-Lytton], George Elliott [Eliot] and others, who seem to lack successors in the present time.[^Victorians]

[^Victorians]: All three of these authors are identified with British Victorianism.

True Idealism can lift the soul to heaven, and encourage the highest and strongest desire for good on earth. We had been promised on the programme three poems of Sea Songs by Miss [Jane] Zacharias, called "Coming from Church," "Fisher and Net," and ["]Where Driftwood lies." They were to have been read by the Recording Secretary. But as the poems had not been received, it was impossible to read them. Whether from failure of the mailer, or from some other developement of the total depravity of inanimate things, or some other cause unknown, the poems had to be given up, for this meeting at any rate.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)