---
title: 1893-11-07 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-11-07-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[168]

## **The 90th Meeting [November 7th, 1893]

The 90th meeting of the Women’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, November 7th 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets.

The president called the meeting to order; and the Reading Secretary read the minutes of the meeting on Oct. 31st.

Miss Cloud [Virginia Woodward] Cloud] made a request that that all members who intend to send proposed amendments or objections to the Constitution to her to be type-written, would do so as soon as convenient, that they may be in good time for their consideration the week before the final reading of the Amendment to the Club.

The President announced that the present meeting was denoted to talks on the World’s Fair; but that before that subject was taken up, we were to have Mrs. [Laura] Atkinson’s report of the work of the “Committee on the Decoration of the Graves of the Authors and Artists of Maryland”-- on All Soul’s Day.

Mrs. Atkinson then spoke of the appropriateness of commemorating in every way the discovery of New World, and especially of commemorating its progress and attainments in all that is great and noble. She reminded us that the Greeks in commemorating the achievements of their successful citizens, of their statesmen and warrior and philosopher, that not we forget their artists and authors; that Phidias and Sappho were honored; and are honored still. She gave thanks for the co-operation given to her Committee both in and outside of the Club. She spoke of the floral offerings

[169]

laid on the grave of Edgar Allen Poe, of [William] Rinehart, of Sidney Lanier, of Mrs. Almira Lincoln Phelps, of John P[endleton] Kennedy, of Mrs. Anne Moncure Seemuller,[unsure of last names] and others,-- and especially on that of our former member, Mrs. Mary Spencer [Spear] Tiernan. Also of the star of flowers sent to be placed on the grave of Francis Scott Key, author of our national hymn, “The Star Spangled Banner.”. A letter was read expressing the appreciation of Mr. Key’s family for this grateful recognition of our own patriotic poet. Also a letter from Madame Rabillon conveying her thanks that her husband’s grave remembered likewise,[^Rabillon] which was all the more pleasing-- as she was an adopted citizen of the state whose daughters have wished to honor him. A note of thanks was given to Mrs. Atkinson who gracefully requested that it should be transferred to her colleagues, and to the ladies who had given flowers, and the use of their carriages to her Committee.

[^Rabillon]: Possibly sculptor Lonce Rabillon (1814-1886).

Some books relating to the World’s Fair were presented to the Club, by Miss Brent [Emma Fenwick] Brent and Miss [Maria H.] Middleton. The first article on the Programme was by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, and was called: “Fugitive Impressions of the World’s Fair.”. She began by speaking of the beautiful White City, on the lovely blue water that has charmed the sight of the multitudes of our contemporaries. She went on to speak of the separate buildings and exhibitions, but chiefly devoted her attention to the Palace of Art,-- the temple of many votaries and devotions. She described vividly the paintings and sculptures of the various nations; coming at

[170]

last to our own American artists, not forgetting the Baltimorean, [Hugh] Bolton Jones and his brother [Francis Coates Jones], and others who have been known among us. She spoke with lively appreciation of the statue of Charles Dickens looking down at Little Nell,-- his lovely creation.[^Nell] Mrs. Lord then spoke of the achievements and possibilities of American Art and Culture, and the past and the future of our nation.

[^Nell]: Nell Trent, a character in Dickens's novel _The Old Curiosity Shop_, was popularly referred to as "Little Nell."
 
The next article of the programme was by Miss Mabel Carter, and was on “Porcelain & Pottery at the World’s Fair[.]” She spoke of the desire of everyone at the Great Exposition to see what especially interests him or her,-- especially her, we can well imagine,-- and of the fortunate woman who can find another one like minded with her-self, in pursuing her own designs and devices. We were entertained with accounts of the riches of the artistic porcelain of Sevres, Limoges, Meissen, Dresden, and of many other as well known and less known localities. We were told of the part taken by women in the nineteenth century evolution of the ancient art of Ceramics, and we could well understand Miss Carter’s appreciation of the unparalleled exhibition brought before us.

The next article on the programme was by Miss [Maria H.] Middleton, and was called “Ten days at the World’s Fair[.]” She spoke of the impression made upon her by her journey to Chicago,-- of the scenery we meet, and of the distance over which we travel, in our own country;-- and perhaps sometimes fail to fully appreciate them. She recalled also the sayings of Mrs. Pullman,[^MrsP] that it pays to give people

[^MrsP]: Harriet (or "Hattie") Sanger Pullman (1842-1921) was married to George Mortimer Pullman (1831-1897), who invented the Pullman sleeping car in the 1860s. The Pullman car made comfortable rail travel possible and accessible to  middle class travelers.

[171]

comfort in travelling. She thought the first view of the Fair might give one a feeling, something like disappointment,-- perhaps before one can really take it into his consciousness. She spoke of the wonders shown, not alone from foreign countries, but in our State Buildings, particularly in those of the West, and more particularly of those of the very far West,-- in their agricultural, mineral, industrial, and natural displays. Nor did she forget the remarkable things in the older State Buildings of the North and the South-- the Massachusetts one, containing the silver watch of Captain Miles Standish, the cradle that had rocked five generations of Adamses-- including two Presidents-- down to the photographs of Bishop Brooks;-- that of Connecticut with relics of the Charter Oak; that of Louisiana with much to please, and with old china and plate for sale,-- and others, with things of as great or greater interest. From very modern things such as railway and electric exhibitions, she went back to three relics of Columbus, and reproductions relating to his first voyage across the unknown ocean that are of never failing interest.

She spoke of the Woman’s building, and then of the Congress of Religions, that first great meeting together of Christians, Israelites, Mohammedans, Parsees [Farsis] and Buddhists, to render to each other the reasons for the faith that is in them. Miss Middleton went on to speak of the hope & courage we feel in seeing the progress and results of the Industry, and Art and Culture and Religion of the World in the nineteenth century,

[172]

and of the triumphs of the mind of man, and of our sense and steadfast hope for the future of our race, the “trust that somehow good will be the final goal of ill,-- that good shall fall at last-- far off-- at last to all[.]”

The last article on the programme was by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, and was called “From Another Country.” She described a young artist at the World’s Fair, who has given himself up to the full enjoyment of the beauty and glamour of his surroundings. But he is recalled from his blissful dreaming, by the sudden, sweet warning voice and message of what seems to be a lovely modern living maiden, and also seems to be one of the creations of classic Art, one who has just stepped out of some old Roman or Greek victorious achievement of man’s genius. Her words bring the artist back-- perhaps to his first love, the beauty and grace and power of the art that was born when the world was young, and can never itself grow old. Perhaps he is only mocked by a degenerate survival of the classic age, who does not know how to appreciate the goodness and glory of the modern times. Perhaps his dreaming mood has dulled his consciousness. So thinks the first friend he meets after the fair vision has vanished from his lids. His friend listens to his story of the lovely Roman girl, Roman, he is sure, though she only said she was “from another country[,]” who came and stood beside him, and talked to him and suddenly disappeared, leaving him thoroughly dissatisfied with what before had delighted

[173]

him. The friend listens, thinks him “physically run down,” and leads him off to a restaurant.

A portion of the programme for November 14th was then announced, and the meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)