---
title: 1893-12-19 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-12-19-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[189]

## 95th Meeting [December 19th, 1893]

The 95th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, December 19th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President took the chair, and announced that this meeting was under the direction of Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, the chairman of the Committee on Modern Poetry.

The first article of the programme consisted of two poems by Miss Cloud [Virginia Woodward] Cloud], “Saint Solitude” and “Among the Pines.” They were read by Miss [Mary F.] Grace, who well interpreted the delicate and graceful meaning of their author.

The next article of the programme was by Miss Reese, and was an account of Louise Imogen Guiney. Miss Reese said that Miss Guiney was a poet of the school of which Miss Edith Thomas seems to be considered the head. But that Miss Guiney, both in prose and verse differs in some respect from Miss Edith Thomas,-- perhaps in being superior to her. They belong to a recent or young school of

[192]

authorship. Miss Guiney was born the first year of the War, and the same year her father, a lawyer in Boston, volunteered and went to the front. He came home at last -- a Brigadier General -- but, a few years afterwards died from the effects of hard service. We were given a pleasant picture of Miss Guiney’s home; of her library and pictures; and of her pet dogs, who have no respect for her as a literary woman, but interfere with her pursuits of learning or authorship without mercy. We had also a very pleasant and appreciative account of her works. We were told of one of them, which Miss Guiney modestly calls “A Footnote to the History of the French Revolution,” in which she gives some account of the Rising in La Vendéee under the heroic young leader Henri de La Rochejaquelein.

Miss Guiney, when in France, went to the home of her hero. She went to the manufactory of red plaid gingham, and there secured some yards of the same kind of cloth, that one hundred years ago served the brave Vendéians for their uniforms. She was told that it was only sold by wholesale, but on revealing that she had come from America, and was writing a book about Henri de La Rochejaquelein, she was allowed to have what she wanted. She had the presentation copies of her book, bound in the famous red gingham. Miss Reese then gave us the pleasure of hearing some of the poetical writings of Miss Guiney. She closed the reading with a devotional Christmas poem suitable to the present season.

The next article of the programme consisted of three poems by Mrs. Easter [Marguerite E.] Easter];-- “A Madrigal,” “St. Agnes" and "November.” They were read by Miss [Mary F.] Grace, with

[193]

spirirespect and appreciation. The last article on the programme was by Miss [Louise] Malloy. It was a Dramatic Poem, called “The Prince’s Wooing,”[^Wooing] and was read by Miss Cloud, who brought out and did justice to the artistic merit and dramatic power of Miss Malloy’s work. It took us back to the days of the Crusades, and brought the Mediaeval knights and ladies before us with the strange fascinating radiance of their own times. It showed us the triumph of Love in those old days, as in all days.

[^Wooing]: Malloy had "[The Prince's Wooing](https://archive.org/details/princeswooingdra00mall)" printed by the American Job Printing Office in Baltimore in 1894--perhaps as a result of her encouraging reception at this meeting.

At the close of the Reading, the applause was so long and earnest, that Miss Malloy was requested to come forward and receive the congratulations of her fellow members, on her literary work.

After the announcement of the programme for the first Tuesday in January 1894, the meeting adjourned.[^End]

[^End]: End of MS 988, Box 3, Book 2
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)