---
title: 1893-10-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-10-17-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 88th Meeting [Oct. 17, 1893].

The 88th meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, October 17th 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, the second Vice President called the meeting to order, and presided. The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of October 10th which were adopted.

Miss Haughton read a letter from Mrs.

[149]

R. W. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer, thanking the Club for her having been made an honorary member, which honor however does not preclude the exercise of her service to the Club, she hoped to work for us still, and would also have soon the pleasure of presenting a book of her own to our library, a companion volume to the one she presented a short time ago,. "France in the 19th Century." The former work treats of Russia and Turkey in the same period of time.[^Latimer]

[^Latimer]: _Russia and Turkey in the Nineteenth Century_ was published by A. C. McClurg in 1893. 

This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, chairman of the Committee on Current Criticism.

The first article on the Programme was by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese and was on "Short Stories." She spoke of some of the Sscotch stories of [J. M.] Barrie, and gave us very charming extracts from them. One illustrated the ordinary mean's fear of his wife's displeasure. One told of the Scotchman who became a humorist in a kirk-yard,[^kirk], another of the one who witnessed his own funeral and came back to read the inscription on his own tombstone, also of the one who was too arrogant to be superstitious.

[^kirk]: I.e., churchyard. "Kirk" is a Scottish term for church.

Miss Reese then spoke of the stories of Henry James. She wished that he would put more flesh and blood into them, and not continue to give us the same succession of myths, that he would only be definite. If he were not so artistic we might perhaps call him dull.

Miss Reese next spoke of the Irish Idylls by Jane Barlow [1892]. She told of the people

[150]

of that part of Ireland of which we hear little except in regard to famine and evictions; and yet this book about the bogs of Connemara--where hunger, rainy weather, hard work and hard winter seem to take the heart out of existence--has something to tell us about the Celt we never heard before.

She told of the widow who received a whole five dollars from her friends in America, and set out to spend it; returning with tea for one, sugar for another, tobacco for another, and so on through her poor friends; and with a little salt for herself. OIf the one too many of a poor family, and of the peacemakers of a village, whose death caused her neighbors to wish that they "might slip off as aisy please God."

The demand for bread still leaves room for a love story, and even for a glimpse of paradise.

Our next article was by Mrs. Thomas [S.] Morris, and was on "The Heavenly Twins" [1893]. She showed us a picture of the writer of the book, Mrs. [Sarah] Grand. She did not particularly commend the style of the writing, but thought the book was written with a purpose, and its author greatly in earnest.

The twins, who are--according to their own account not signs of the zodiac, but signs of the times, are very bright and witty; but Mrs. Morris said, such twins as she would be thankful not to meet with her own life. That they give the name

[151]

to Mrs. Grand's book; otherwise she might have been at a loss for a name to give it.

Mrs. Morris spoke of a review of this book by [Hjalmar Hjorth] Boyesen in the Cosmopolitan for October--in which he speaks of it as a study of the Psychology of marriage. To the review she took exception in some points, especially to his speaking of the "unwifely attitude" of the heroine as having accelerated her husband's moral deterioration. This view she thought unfair, but as old as Adam and the garden of Eden. "The woman that Thou gavest me, she tempted me" etc.[^tempter]

[^tempter]: Gen. 3:12, "The woman thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat."

We were given a review of the story to show that the so called "unwifely attitude" was accepted and desired by the husband to make life bearable if not happy to both of them. "His mental deterioration, begun before marriage, was she thought on the lines of his own want of fine and noble qualities. The ending of the book seems to awaken many questions. That after her husband's death, the awakening of Evadne's love, not by passion's touch, but in the realization of her own high ideals is depicted with a light and graceful hand; if it is not life it is a possibility, at least.

Mrs. Morris spoke of Maarten Maarten's work "An Old Maid's Love" [1890]," but he, she said, saves his heroine from marrying the man whose moral deterioration and its progress she discovers in time to prevent such a fate. She spoke of George Elliott [Eliot];--and then some

[152]

of the problems in Psychology in Heredity, and in other branches of scientific research which are deeply interesting to all of us.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Francis [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, and was called "Memories and a Literary Squabble." Mrs. Dammann spoke of biographies and of autobiographies, and of some of them as of special interest. We were given comment upon and extracts from The Life of Sir Richard Burton by his wife;[^Burton] beginning with the dedication or consecration of the book by the wife to the husband, to "her earthly master in life" into which ["]both of their lives were fused"--telling him to wait for her, ["]for the time will not be long."

[^Burton]: _The Life of Captain Sir Richard F. Burton_, by Isabel, Lady Burton (1831-1896), was published in 1893.

Lady Burton seems to think aloud in this book; which is in some respects a vindication as well as a biography, for she thinks that her husband was not treated rightly by the English government. It is a book with whose faults the critics are disposed to deal gently. That the history is fascinating, however told, we were willing to believe, from the extracts read to us.

We were reminded of Captain Burton's journey to Mecca in disguise, of his adventure in Abyssinia, in the Crimea, among the Mormons, in Central Africa, and of the fevers in which he saw the dark green gates across the world, that no man knows yawning before him. Also of his admiration for General [Charles] Gordon

[153]

whom he thought unsupported by his government at home. That Lady Burton tells of her husband's knowledge of 29 languages and never mixing them, his contributions to geography, ethnology and kindred sciences, his power to make friends everywhere, his literary work, especially his translation of the Original Arabian Nights, which caused much discussion, but also profit.

We were told of his peculiarities, the love of old clothes and tables, his horror of honey like that some people have of cats, his love of the color red and the metal silver, his lack of religion which did not involve a lack of superstition, and his oriental or gypsy aspect and nature.

The early love story of this afterwards devoted couple gave us another view of both of them. He taught his wife to adopt his brave almost savage mode of life, which having no children she was able to do, and although she was a strict Catholic and he an Agnostic, she seems to have given him all the hero-worship of her nature.

Mrs. Dammann then went on to tell us of the autobiography of W[illia]m Bell Scott,[^Scott] which has made some sensation in the literary world. Mr. Swinburne has taken reception to some of the accounts of himself, and says that if biographies have given a new terror to death, autobiographies have given a new terror to life, and this, notwithstanding he is here called the greatest rhythmic genius

[^Scott]: William Bell Scott (1811-1890) was a Scottish painter, poet, and writer affiliated with the Pre-Raphaelites, especially Dante Gabriel Rossetti (1828-1882). Bell's _Autobiographical Notes_ were published posthumously in 1892.

[154]

in England. Others have also taken exception to Mr. Scott's statements largely, and his editor has made efforts to explain and soften them.

Mrs. Dammann gave us extracts from these reminiscences and letters[,] which extend from 1811 to 1890, relating to people not only distinguished but interesting. There were incidents connected with artists like the Rossettis[^Rossettis] and Holman Hunt and others.

[^Rossettis]: Dante and Christina Rossetti.

A letter of Holman Hunt describes his earliest suggestion of his picture The Light of the World, and its growth and completion with artistic affection, and enthusiasm.

Mrs. Dammann thought that for this description of the lofty purpose of Holman Hunt, in what [John] Ruskin calls his great poetical picture of The Light of the World, we were greatly indebted to the Autobiography of William Bell Scott.

The entertaining programme of the meeting being finished, the articles for the next meeting were announced, and the meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)