---
title: 1893-11-14 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-11-14-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[173]

## The 91st Meeting [November 14th, 1893]

The 91st meeting of the Woman's Literary Club was held on Tuesday, November 14th 1893 at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President called the meeting to order, and read two special notices. The first was that the members of the club who desire to propose amendments to the Constitution can send such amendments to Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, chairman of the special Committee appointed to receive and consider such amendments,-- type-written, and before Saturday morning, November the 18th.

The second notice announced that our evenings for special meetings or Salons, should be given in future to the discussion of literary topics of interest to all of us. The President spoke of the writings of Charles Dudley Warner, and of those of some other writers oif our own language, as pr­­esenting subjects that suggest discussion and comment. She said also that the literature progress and comparative development of other nations, may give us something for consideration and enquiry with pleasure and profit.

The Reading Secretary then read that Minutes of the meeting of November the 7th. This meeting of November 14th was under the direction of Miss

[174]

Mary Grace, Chairman of the Committee on Translations.

The first article on our programme was given by Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer, who read to us her own translation of a poem by Francois Coppee called "Shipwrecked." It is unnecessary to speak of Mrs. Latimer's success in translation. She spoke of a certain jerkiness perhaps observable in her version, which was a peculiarity of the original poem, and generally of this author's writings. The poem brought before us the old sailor, rough of mien, who had been wounded long ago in the fight in Navarino Bay, telling his sea-tales of sixty years past. Of how he, a ship-boy, cuffed and kicked all the time, had one friend,-- God sent him only one,-- a dog, a far nobler creature than any of the other shipmates around him. Of how he had been shipwrecked, and gone down in the waves, and had been rescued by his dumb friend. How they two alone had floated in an open boat, under the burning sun, three days without food or water. How the third day, the dog crouched down with a strange stare, his great eyes appealing for help,-- and sprang snapping at him. His one friend was a mad wild beast- and life is dear to us all.

He was rescued, fainting, knife in hand, all covered with the dog's blood. He says that "War is War," he has killed men, scores of them;-- he does not dream of them; but he does dream of the dog.

The next article on the programme was a translation from the German, by Miss [Annie C.] Volck of an essay by Professor Rümelin. Miss Volck told us that some students of German literature, would no doubt disagree with the opinion expressed by the

[175]

writer of the article she was about to read in the place he assigns to Lessing among German authors. The essay began by speaking of the tendency of the critic of every department of letters and art, to construct a triumvirate, having two great authors, thinkers, philosophers or eminent men of any sort, they straightway find it necessary to place a third on the same plane with them,-- alike to be revered. Many attempts have been made in Germany to find a third great genius to stand with Goethe and Schiller. Public opinion differed much on the subject. In his youth, Professor Rümelin tells us, he sometimes heard of Goethe, Schiller and Herder-- or Goethe, Schiller and Klopstock. Sometimes Richter or even Heine completed the triangle. Later on, Ludwig Tieck did duty as the third. But, about in the fifties the voice of the majority made out the three great stars to be Goethe, Schiller, and Lessing. And Lessing was not considered the Lepidus of the triumvirate, but was called the peer of the other two. He himself with his love and perception of truth might perhaps have been the first to disclaim such distinction.

Professor Rümelin while dissenting from the wide spread opinions he records, went on to speak of Lessing’s real power, ability and achievements. Also of his appreciation and advocacy of the Jewish race and nature, of his ideas of toleration and of reform, of his life work and his part in that period of “Storm and Stress,” when a fresh new life and spirit seemed to be breathed into German literature. The author spoke of looking at Lessing from two points of view, of judging

[176]

him by the historic and by the positive standards. We were told that though this great German may not have attained the highest mark,-- he was many-sided he knew the value of insights,-- he found out how learning and common sense can reach to each other the hand unfiltered and free. We were given in this essay a discriminating and valuable criticism of Lessing’s writings, of his purpose and faith -- in Mrs. Volck’s spirited translation.

The next article on our programme was a dramatic reading by Miss [Fanny] Minor, from the French of Legouve. It was called “A King Lear of the Nineteenth Century”. The King Lear of this story is very French, very nineteenth century, and very satisfactory. He will not give his daughter 200 000 francs for her marriage portion, because 100 000 francs is all he feels able to spare. And the tears and affectionate pleadings of wife and daughter do not move him. He insists with wit and good humor that parents ought to be richer than their children. Also that the sufferings of Shakespear’s King Lear were all his own fault-- that Goneril and Regan were not bad originally, that their father was accountable putting in their way the opportunity and the temptation for ingratitude and filial impiety. The young people marry, and are extravagant enough on the 100 000 francs to justify the refusal of the 200 000. At last the good mother begs that their children may have a larger income. On this the eminently sane modern Lear informs her of the debts of their son-in-law; also the well proportional filial love and economical calculation which is the cause of the indefinite and apparently unlimited

[177]

visits that their daughter and her family are making to them. Still the good father plans a charming dinner for the twenty fifth anniversary of his own wedding day for which his daughter is to have a lovely new deed, and his wife is requested to wear his own dear mother’s diamonds. When this happy occasion arrives, the wife & daughter come to the table in tears, and the diamonds fail to come with them. The wise King Lear then says that he is aware they have been sold for the benefit of their son-in-law, but he calls his family to the table. A cry of joy announces that the mother finds the diamonds under her napkin and the son-in-law finds the 12000 francs for his debts. Our delightful King Lear says only: “Don’t do it again because I could not do it again.”

The next article of the programme was given by Miss [Jenny] Nelson, and was “A translation from the French of Vinet.["] It began with the assertion that the way of the translator is hard. He finds the world the proverbial step-mother. Fluids seem to be lessened by being poured from one vessel to another; words convey different notions to those who draw different conclusions from them--, the almond eyed Celestial and the Caucasian have not the same angle of vision, the [S- unsure] or the Latin may take ideas by the blunt or the sharp end; there are losses which no labor and skill can prevent. But are we devoid of gains to balance these losses? The article goes on with an apostrophe to the ideal poet. There was, we were told, no poetry in Eden; poetry is creation, unfallen man did not need it. Was the soul enlarged since the fall? Some plants when crushed give out

[178]

fragrance, and souls in suffering gave birth to virtue, gave birth to poetry. Art or poetry is the inspiration born not made; whosoever makes poetry is no poet. A poet of Nature’s melody is not for us alone, a poet is for her own joy. Mother Nature sings when we are sleep,-- the ruby rests in the mine, and the pearl in the ocean.

Can we-- we may ask-- translate the full message of music and light and color into our own speech?

The last article of the programme was by Miss [Mary F.] Grace, and was “On Translation.” She spoke of the accusation that translating poetry was like decanting Champagne. Then of the liberty sometimes taken by the translator to paraphrase, even to amplify, rather than to burden a so called literal translation with quotes and explanations in the effort to do justice to the author. Sometimes the best translation is a compromise, perhaps what [John] Dryden calls; “not so loose as paraphrase, nor so close as metaphrase[.]” Sometimes we were told that fifty worlds of Greek require one hundred words of English,-- perhaps that Aristophanes may not be an impossibility to an English reader. And that while many ideas are common to man everywhere, we must take into account that authors of other times and other nations have addressed their contemporaries and their compatriots. And how can the force of the local and temporary acceptation of an author’s words be given by a translator? Can a faithful translator substitute modern expressions for those of an ancient author in the hope of gaining a spirited rendering of his supposed meaning? Miss Grace gave us some

[179]

interesting instances of curious translations. She spoke of those versions which are said to make the reader forget that they are translations at all. She quoted [Matthew] Arnold and [John] Newman, and [Samuel Taylor] Coleridge and Goldwin Smith. She said the translator’s first duty is to be faithful. He must give us the manner and method of the writer. Poetry we were reminded is a compound of music and suggestions. Perhaps the suggestion of one word cannot really be substituted for another. But all translation is substitution. We were reminded of the assertion that we need not try to cut our way through the forest, when a good road has been made for us already, and that much has been said for and against the view of the subject, though of course scholarship makes us independent of translations.

Miss Grace spoke too of learned blundering, and also of all that translators can hope to do. Her article took a wide range on a subject on which she was able to tell us much of interest and value.

The announcement was made that the Fiction Class would meet on Friday morning at eleven o’clock in the Committee room, and the meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)