---
title: 1893-10-23 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-10-23-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[41]

## Board of Management Meeting [Oct. 23, 1893]

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Monday October 23rd, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. There were six members present;--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent], First Vice President [Elizabeth T. King],--Second Vice President [Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton], Recording Secretary [Lydia Crane],--Corresponding Secretary [Annie S. Perot], and Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown.

The President called the meeting to order, and informed us that we had been called together to consider the question of the proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the Club. This question had been discussed last Spring, and had been deferred until the present time.

After some discussion of the subject before us, the President submitted in writing a plan for the offering and consideration of Amendments to the Constitution, as follows:

"Any Amendment desired to be made to the Constitution must be presented to the Board of Management in type-writing.

"Three copies of each of such Amendments must be sent to the Recording Secretary. One copy to be filed; which the members of the Club may consult for information. One copy for the Board of Management. Once copy for the Presi-

[42]

dent.--To be sent to the Secretary before Saturday October 28th.

"The proposed Amendments, with the several clauses to be amended, will be read to the Club on Tuesday October 31st, by a member chosen from and by the Club, exclusive of the Board of Management.

"All objections to these Amendments must be made in type-writing, as were the Amendments:

"On a subsequent meeting, the last Tuesday in November having been appointed for such purpose, the proposed Amendments, together with the objections made to such Amendments, will be read to the Club for the second time; each Section being separately considered, and separately voted upon.

"The votes will be made by written ballot,--a two-thirds vote, of course, being necessary for any Amendment of the Constitution."

A discussion followed the reading of the first resolution; and Miss [Elizabeth T.] King offered--verbally--a substitute for it, as follows:[^note]  "A Committee on Revision of the Constitution shall be formed, to

[^note]: Crane's note: "According to the notes and recollection of the Recording Secretary. L. C."

[43]

receive and consider proposed Amendments; and the Club shall vote whether this Committee shall be chose from the Club generally, or shall be the Board of Management. Any Amendment desired to be made must be presented to the Committee in type-writing."

After a free and interesting discussion, taking a wide range the substitute was adopted. 4 to 2.

After further discussion, the remaining articles of the President's resolutions were adopted. It was agreed that they should be read at the meeting of the next day, October 24th; and submitted for action by the Club at the meeting of October 31st.

At was proposed that, at this latter meeting there should be no visitors. It was also proposed to limit the time for individuals speaking on the subjects under consideration.

Miss Brown spoke of the subject of having a teacher of Political Economy for the Committee on that department of study; but no special action was taken on this matter, though some time was given to its discussion.

Miss Haughton then presented her Report as Chairman of the Committee on Furnishing. She reported the

[44]

purchase of chairs, book-cases, a divan, a lamp, a sofa, a desk, and other furniture, also the alterations made in the platform of the room in which we hold our meetings. All these purchases had been made well within the amount of money appropriated by the Board of Management for these purposes.

Thanks were given to Mrs. Haughton, and to the rest of the Committee on Furnishing. The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)