---
title: 1893-12-12 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-12-12-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[189]

## 94th Meeting [December 12th, 1983]

The 94th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, December 12th, 1983, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets.

The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent called the meeting to order. She announced that this was to be a business meeting, and an important one, into which no outsider could enter. The Report from the Special Committee on Amendment to the Constitution was to be read to us; & the request had been made that there should be quiet attention, and no interruption. It would be necessary to have a doorkeeper. Miss [Eliza] Ridgely was requested to act in that capacity; and consented to do so.

The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of November 28th, which were adopted. The

[190]

meeting of December 5th was, owing to exceptionally bad weather, so thinly attended that nothing of importance was done on that evening, and the reading of the Secretary’s report of that meeting was omitted.

The President then asked for the calling of the rolle of members. The Treasurer responded by reading her list of names. A number of members came in while this was being done, and after it was finished.

Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, Chairman of the Special Committee to consider and formulate Amendments to our Constitution, then presented the Report adopted by the Majority of that Committee. She introduced her reading with a few words regarding the careful consideration given by the Committee to each section of the Constitution, and the amount and the character of the work that had been done. She proceeded to read the old Constitution and the proposed Amendments to it in her Report, section by section, accompanying and following her reading with distinct and forcible explanations and comments. She closed by telling us that this Report would be sent by post, to every member of the Club.

Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall then rose to read the Report of the Minority of the Special Committee on Amendments. Miss Wrenshall prefaced her reading by speaking of the very few suggestions for amendments, that had reached this Committee, from the other members of the Club. She then spoke of the differing views brought forward in the Committee, with regard to many of the new features; and the omissions in the proposed amended Constitution of the Majority of this Committee.

She also read the Constitution and the Amendments proposed, by the Minority of the 

[191]

Committee, section by section, explaining and commenting with clearness and earnestness.

Both Reports having been read, and both ably supported and elucidated; the meeting adjourned. Then the question arose whether the Minority Report as well as the Majority Report should be sent to each member of the Club? After some discussion of precedents, legal authorities etc., -- the President decided the question in the affirmative -- and the members dispersed.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)