---
title: 1893-12-29 Special meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-12-29-special.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[21]

## Called Meeting. December 29th, 1893.

A specially called meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, “To consider the Incorporation of the said Club,”--was held on Friday afternoon, December 29th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

There were forty or more members present. In the absence of the President, the First Vice President,

[22]

Miss [Elizabeth T.] King, presided. After calling the meeting to order, the presiding officer announced the business for which we had been called together by the President.

This being a special meeting, no minutes were presented. Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock then rose to present three notices or resolutions, saying that she would have preferred to listen to them from some one else. She explained that the only object of incorporation was to define our position, and give us an actual legal existence. At present it is only by the courtesy of the storekeepers that we have credit, or are able to make bills at all.”” At the same time, each one of us is liable, individually, and may be sued. A deed of Incorporation requires five names to be signed to it, though these may be as many as we please. There is a small matter of expense, as each signer before the Justice of the Peace pays thirty cents. Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock then said she would present a paper drawn up by the Clerk of one of our Courts.

Some questions being asked, Miss [Edith] Duer, Mrs. [M. N.] Perry, Miss [Bessy L.] Clark and Miss  [Fanny] Hoffman gave us some information from their own experiences with regard to incorporate benevolent societies. They spoke of the custom of having twelve Directors or managers of the society to be incorporated--of the incorporators appearing in person at the proper time,--and of the rules of the Maryland Legislature on these subjects. The question arose of the control possessed by these directors. Aiming their enquiries were those with regard to the statement of the full name, and of the full

[23]

purposes of the Club or society seeking to be incorporated. [This sentence should be checked against the original].

Mrs. Bullock said that she had consulted one of the Judges of the Supreme Court; and that she thought her paper, which had been drawn up by Mr. Trippe, would be just and satisfactory. Her first motion was: “That the Women’s Literary Club of Baltimore shall be Incorporated.” The second: “That all members who wish to sign the act of Incorporation are invited to do so.” The third: That the present Board of Management continue for one year from the present time.["] This last point, Mrs. Bullock said, was a more difficult one than the other two; but it must be stated, as the law requires that the incorporating Board of Management, shall continue for twelve months after Incorporation. Of course, an officer can resign, if she desires to do so.

There was discussion, and also opposition with regard to the proposed Incorporation. Mrs. Perry asked for information about the statement of the purpose of the Club in the proposed Charter. The answer was: “Literary Purposes,--the advancement of Literature in the State of Maryland, and other states or Foreign Countries.” Other questions were asked. About property of the Club, and on kindred points; also with regard to capital stock,--of which we were reminded, that we have none. Also: whether our furniture would be more secure under Incorporation than it has been heretofore?

Miss Hoffman moved “to postpone this whole subject until after the Spring elections,” when

[24]

a new Board of Management would begin a new year of office,--otherwise the old Board of Management would have an undue length of term. The vote on this motion did not seem to be clearly understood or defined. Mrs. Bullock said that unless Incorporation was shown to be the strong desire of the Club, it was not worth a struggle.” If there was not a pleasant feeling in the matter, it might be well to postpone it altogether.

Mrs. Perry said there had been undue haste in presenting a novelty,-- it would be well to consider the subject, and more graceful to wait for the presence of the President.

Miss Duer spoke of the advantages, and disadvantages, of Incorporation; of the power of a Board of Management; and of that of a minority; and of the present friction with regard to the objects of the Club. She said she might not be entirely opposed to Incorporation, but she thought Miss Hoffman’s motion the fairer one for both sides.

Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton then gave us the opinion of a Judge of the Court of Appeals. She said we have no right--to our furniture,--no redress against loss. (Some one here remarked: “Our clock has already gone) We are, Miss Haughton said “each one liable for the debts of the Club.”

The presiding officer requested the Second Vice President to take the chair for a little while. Miss King then said that this whole matter was a

[25]

surprise to her. No Committee had been appointed to consider it; it had not been brought before the Board of Management. “We all,” she said, “want the good of the Club. Our property will not be in danger just now.” Shall we adopt the present Board of Management for a year? And will our Constitution be the legal act of Incorporation?

Miss Haughton spoke of legal advice having been taken before the decision was made to bring this question, not before the Board of Management, but before the whole Club. Miss King asked if the Board was not to have control?

The question then arose whether we would not after Incorporation, be without a Constitution? Miss King spoke of another association, consisting chiefly of men, in which it was decided that as soon as Incorporation went into effect, the old Constitution was wiped out.

Miss Duer also spoke on this subject; and then said that a count ought to be taken on Miss Hoffman’s motion. Mrs. Bullock said this thing could not well be done, unless cordially endorsed.” If the Incorporation does leave us without a Constitution, we can reform and take up the old reports and new ones. Mrs. Perry said: “They have now no existence.”

Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock moved that we vote again on Miss Hoffman’s resolution: “To postpone this subject of Incorporation until after the Spring election.” By a rising vote, it was lost.--There being only ten--10--votes

[26]

in favor of it. Mrs. Bullock then proposed her resolution. Miss Haughton suggested that they be divided--and the division was accepted by Mrs. Bullock. The question was put: “Shall this Club be Incorporated?” Miss [Eliza] Ridgely rose to a point of order, she said that for Constitutional changes, two meetings are necessary, one for proposal, and one for voting and adoption. “Can we make this change at one meeting?” The presiding officer and Mrs. Perry supported Miss Ridgely’s point.

Miss Haughton and Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall read authorities on Constitutional changes, and Constitutional repeals. Miss Ridgely insisted that it was necessary to propose such business at regular meetings. Miss Haughton said “we are not incorporated until the Clerk of the Court registers our act of Incorporation.” Mrs. Bullock said “we are a social body, and the will of the Club is supreme.” After further discussion Miss Ridgely appealed to the Chair. The presiding officer construed the Constitution as supporting the position of Miss Ridgely. She thought that two weeks ought to be given to the consideration of all important business. After further discussion, Miss Haughton appealed from the decision of the Chair. After further remarks by Mrs. Whitelock, Mrs. Bullock, Miss Ridgely, and Mrs. [Lily Tyson] Manly, the question of Miss Haughton’s appeal was put to the Club. It was sustained,--receiving thirty--30--affirmative votes.

Miss Duer proposed an amendment to the resolution of postponement by Miss Hoffman, to the effect, “That the business of Incorporation shall

[27]

be deferred; to be considered after the Spring election, and voted upon two weeks consideration.” Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord] moved as a further amendment, “that this business be acted upon, and that arrangements for this end, be made, this afternoon,” Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann spoke on the same subject--as did also Mrs. Bullock and Miss Haughton.

Miss Hoffman read the post-card calling this meeting, “To consider the Incorporation of the Club.” Miss Haughton said the actual Incorporation is done by the Club of the Court. The vote was called for and taking on Mrs. Bullock’s resolution “that the Women’s Literary Club shall be Incorporated.” It was carried by a large majority. Mrs. Bullock explained with regard to the second of her resolutions, that those who do not sign the Act of Incorporation at the present time can do so later, or can be voted in, as those who sign, expect to vote in every other member failing to sign. The second resolution “That all members who wish to sign the Act of Incorporation are invited to do so,” was also carried.

Mrs. Bullock said that these proposals ought to bring quiet and peace. She did not care for the present Board of Managers to be Directors, especially Miss Ridgely said that one of the Board was certainly absent. It was said that she could be voted in. In the discussion of the third resolution the question arose, “whether the Director could adopt a Constitution and By-Laws; and elect officers for the present year?” The resolution retaining

[28]

the present Board of Management for a year, was opposed by Mrs. Perry, Miss King, and others. Miss Haughton asked leave to offer her resignation as second Vice President, to take effect in May. Miss [Lydia] Crane, Recording Secretary, asked leave to resign under the same terms. Mrs. Wrenshall moved that Miss Haughton’s resignation be not accepted. The presiding officer said it was unnecessary to take action on resignation now.

After further discussion, a Committee was proposed to make arrangements for the Incorporation of the Club. It was agreed to apparently without opposition, and Miss Haughton, Mrs. Wrenshall and Mrs. Bullock were proposed as this committee.

The third resolution, “That the present Board of Management be continued for one year,” was carried also,--receiving an undoubtable majority of the votes cast. After further discussion, Miss King asked, “By whose authority had this meeting been called?” Miss Haughton explained that about twenty ladies had requested the President to call it. Miss Duer asked “if our Charter had been prepared?” She said she objected to the statement of our object of existence as a Literary Purposes; thinking it too narrow and limited. Miss Hoffman said we might, as least, retain the words of the cast off Constitution, and add “social, artistic and political purposes.” Miss Ridgely said that these words could be incorporated into our Charter. This proposition was favorably received, and seemed to meet general

[29]

agreement. The hour being late, the meeting informally adjourned. After adjournment, a Justice of the Peace arrived; and the legal document--or Act of Incorporation--prepared by Mr. Trippe, was read to the ladies remaining in the Club room. It was then corrected by the addition of the words which it had been understood, here to be added to the statement of the purposes of the Club--making them “literary, social, political and artistic,” and defining the duties of members.

Twelve names were then signed to the paper namely: Miss Haughton, Mrs. Wrenshall, Mrs. Bullock, Mrs. Dammann, Mrs. Tait, Mrs. Graham, Mrs. [Martha Lee] Jenkins, Miss [Lydia] Crane, Miss [Grace] Balch, Mrs. [Henry C.] Evans, Miss [Mary E.] Evans and Miss [Louise] Malloy.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)