---
title: 1893-12-26 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-12-26-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[15]

## 29th Salon and Business Meeting [Dec. 26, 1893]

The 29th Salon of the Women’s Literary Club of Baltimore came in due order on Tuesday, December[^date] 26th 1893. It had been set aside for business of importance to the whole Club. The members assembled in the building at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets.

[^date]: "December" is struck out and "January" written over, but the date of the meeting had to have been Dec. 26, 1893.

The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order. She reminded us that we are now resolved ourselves into a deliberate assembly, and that we were to consider and vote upon the proposed Amendments to the Constitution, as reported by the Committee specifically appointed to receive suggestions, and formulate such Amendments for our actions upon them. The result of the vote of this Committee had been read to us on the previous Tuesday.

The Roll of Members was called by the Recording Secretary.

Miss [Eliza] Ridgely rose and moved “that the Report of the Majority of the Committee be now considered section by section. Miss [Leonora] Griffith suggested that Miss Ridgely’s motion ought to be divided into two motions. After some little discussion Mrs. [Thomas S.] Morris moved an amendment to the motion before us: “That the Minority Report be substituted for that of the Majority.”[^minority] Miss Ridgely spoke of the propriety of considering both reports, section by section. Mrs. Morris said that her motion now had precedence. After further discussion by Miss

[^minority]: In this parliamentary maneuver, Mrs. Morris suggests that the Club disregard the proposed amendments to the Club constitution offered by the appointed committee proposed by Rebecca Griffin and which included Mary Wilcox Brown, Edith Duer, Mrs. M. N. Perry, Sarah H. Bennett, Elizabeth King, and Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton (see minutes for Oct. 31, 1893). The Minority report was put forward by Letitia Wrenshall, who served as Club president beginning in 1898-1899.

[16]

Ridgely, Miss [Edith] Duer, Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown, Mrs. Morris and Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann on Amendments and on Amendments to Amendments Mrs.iss Griffith moved “that Miss Ridgely’s motion be divided into” "shall it be considered section by section”? Miss Brown said a few words, and the vote was called for on the motion. Shall Miss Ridgely’s motion be divided this motion was carried; Miss Ridgely’s motion was divided.

Mrs. Morris called for a vote on her motion, or amendment: “Shall the Minority Report be substituted for the Majority Report?” It was seconded by Mrs. Dammann, and carried; the vote resulting as counted, in thirty three--33--in the affirmative, to seventeen--17--in the negative.

Miss Ridgely asked if the consideration of the Majority Report could not be moved as a still further amendment also? But this was contested as illegal. After further remarks, Mrs. Morris moved “the consideration of the Minority Report, as a whole.”

Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson rose to make a point of order. She said that the Majority Report had a right to a vote. The President refused to and read well-known authorities on Parliamentary Law, touching points under discussion. Mrs. Johnson said that tshe second part of Miss Ridgely’s motion had not been voted upon. Some discussion arose, as to whether Miss Ridgely had put forward the second part of her motion at the right time, or in proper form. Miss Ridgely said that she was on both sides of this

[17]

question. She also thought that the second part of her motion ought to be voted upon. After further debate, Miss Duer moved “that the Majority Report be accepted.” Some of the members asked whether we were willing to go again over the ground, over which we had passed? Mrs. Johnson said she thought we all wished to be fair; many of us did not wish to see either report adopted en masse.

Mrs. Edward [Rebecca Lloyd Nicholson] Shippen proposed to vote on the differences between the two reports, section by section. After further discussion and further readings of authorities on the difference between acceptance and adoption, the limitations of amendments etc., Mrs. [M. N.] Perry requested that every one would address the President, and avoid conversation.

Mrs. Johnson proposed the question: “Shall we reconsider the decision that has been made? After comments by Miss [Elizabeth T.] King, Miss [Fanny] Hoffman, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, and others, it was agreed to reconsider. Miss King moved “that the Majority Report be now considered.”

Mrs. Morris again moved “the substitution of the Minority Report for that of the Majority.”

Miss King said her motion had precedence. She said she did not propose to do any fighting; she wished the Club to be developed‑-not changed.

The President put the question; “Shall the Majority Report be considered at this time?” There being thirty‑-30--votes in the negative, the motion of Miss King was lost. Miss Griffith then asked,

[18]

“What effect this vote would have upon the Majority Report?” The President decided that it suppressed the Majority Report. Some exception being taken to this decision, the President read the ruling of Bushing on Parliamentary Law on this point.

Miss Brown, Chairman of the Committee on Amendments, said “We understand and accept it.”

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] moved: “that the Minority Report be considered,‑-clause by clause.” This motion was lost.

Mrs. Morris moved “the adoption of the Minority Report as a whole.”

Mrs. Bullock asked leave to make a statement. She had, she said, made and put on the blackboard, a tabulated representation of the points of difference between the two reports:--to which she directed our attention. There were, she said, some sections that were identical in both reports; some with only slight points of difference; only one vital point of difference; and one omission of importance.” The Minority Report is a compromise between the Majority Report, and the old Constitution; if it is not adopted, we fall back upon the old Constitution. If neither report is adopted when shall we wish to try this work again? The Committee was the creation of the Club; its members have shown self-sacrifice and devotion in this work. Mrs. Bullock went on to speak of the Saturday Morning Club of Boston,[^Saturday] which much resembled our own,--and of other Clubs also. After further careful explanations, citing of precedents, and

[^Saturday]: The Saturday Morning Club was founded by Julia Ward Howe in 1871 and continues today through an association with the Harvard Club of Boston. 

[19]

expressions of the good will we have for each other, Mrs. Bullock asked for a generous consideration of the Minority Report--now left--to be voted upon.

Mrs. Morris spoke of the Minority Report, as having us still a literary Club,--a point which, she thought, the Majority Report nullified, by omitting the qualifications for membership in the old Constitution. This lack of requirements would, she thought, result in a lack of aim and purpose, in making us a very different Club;--we might have simply a lecture hall, or school of institution.

Miss Brown said it was hardly necessary to discuss these points of difference on this occasion. She, however, wished to say, with regard to omissions, that the clause about two negative votes, in the admission of new members, had been by a mistake of the printer, left out of the Majority Report.

Dr. Mary Sherwood spoke of the broadening of views, and of work that ought to be acceptable to all; of the women, not specially engaged in literary work, who might be valuable members of the Club; of the probable gain of launching out--into wider paths.

The President asked the first-Vice President, to take the chair, while she said a few words to the Club. Miss Brent then referred to the first general meeting of the Club in Goucher Hall, Woman’s College, on March 19th, 1890. She recalled the discussion then of our aims and purposes; the desire of all to maintain a lofty ideal, which we still hope may be reached; to be faithful to a high

[20]

moral standard. She recalled Mrs. [Mary Spear] Tiernan's words on that occasion, presaging that our literary life might be a refreshment and a helping influence in every portion of our city. That we do not build on a social or money basis, and our future life ought to be growth and progress.

Miss King asked time for one brief word, with regard to the omission in the Majority of qualifications for memberships. She said they were not really omitted; for every member was there required to be an active member of at least one Committee.

Mrs. Bullock said that our By-Laws had not been really subject to amendments, by the special Committee. Miss King suggested that the By-Laws and the Constitution held together. Mrs. Bullock said that the amending of the By-Laws belonged to the Board of Management:--the motion or resolution of Mrs. Griffin, by which the Committee on Amendments was appointed, proposed only the “Amendment of the Constitution.” “We do not then, in voting on either report, touch the subject of teachers or lecturers.”

Miss Brown and Mrs. Perry both explained that the Committee certainly thought itself empowered to present Amendments to the By-Laws. The President said this was simply a misunderstanding. Miss Ridgely said that all of the By-Laws had been submitted to the Club.

Some further discussion arose; remarks were made by Mrs. Morris, Miss Bond, Mrs. Graham, Mrs.

[21]

Mrs. [Margaret] Lake and others.

Miss Hoffman read some readings on legal points. The question was finally put “Shall the Minority Report be adopted, as a whole?”

The Recording Secretary called the Roll,--the members answering to their names. Miss [Annie C.] VFolck also kept count of votes. The result was, as marked in the Secretary’s list. Affirmative, thirty seven--37--Negative, twenty one--21. The Minority Report did not gain a two thirds vote. Mrs. Duer asked “If both reports could not still be considered, section by section? But it was decided that each report was a deal better now. Each report having failed, and old Constitution being still in force; the meeting adjourned.

The members then refreshed themselves with coffee and sandwiches, which had been ordered by the second Vice President.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)