---
title: 1893-11-21 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-11-21-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[179]

## 92nd Meeting [November 21st, 1893]

The 92nd meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, November 21st 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting on November 14th. She also read the notice that the Fiction Committee will meet each Wednesday morning at

[180]

eleven o’clock at the house of Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord.

The first article on our programme was given by Mrs. Sidney [Clara B. Newman] Turner and was her own “Personal Recollections of Emily Dickinson.” Mrs. Turner was a cousin of Miss Dickinson. She knew well this author whose position in the world of letters is as we know, in many respects, remarkable,-- having been won chiefly since her death, and by the singular force and originality of her poems. We have no doubt most of us read Col. [Thomas] Higginson’s highly appreciated records of Emily Dickinson and her works.[^Higginson] But Mrs. Turner brought before us the life and personality of the author, with vivid and affectionate interest and regard. She spoke of the early home life of Emily Dickinson, then of her father, who was a gentleman of the old school; and his daughter acknowledged that she was afraid of him, until they began to understand each other.[^Turner] Then of this woman of rare intellectual qualities, always making the bread at home, because her father liked her bread better than that made by anyone else. Also of her fancy for always dressing in white; and of her idea that there would be something unfeminine in the publication of her works to the world. The of her love of flowers, and of all nature. And of her kindness to little children, and of other womanly qualities, which are certainly none the less valuable for being united to genius and culture.

[^Higginson]: Thomas Wentworth Higginson (1823-1911) was an early champion and controversial editor of Emily Dickinson's poetry. For an example of the "records" he compiled of her work, see Higginson, “Emily Dickinson’s Letters,” _Atlantic Monthly_ LXVIII (October 1891), pp. 444-456.
[^Turner]: An excerpt of these recollections appears in Richard Sewell's _The Life of Emily Dickinson_ (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1994), p. 265.

After telling of Emily Dickinson’s life, Mrs. Turner read her latest poems treating of immortality, and told us of her death, and of her simple and appropriate funeral ceremonies. Having given us new and interesting points of view with regard to the

[181]

aAuthors, Mrs. Turner presented her fellow members of the Club with the Poems of Emily Dickinson. A vote of thanks was rendered for this gift.

The next article on our programme was made up of “Sea Songs” by Miss [Jane] Zacharias. They were called “Coming from Church[,]” “Where Drift-wood Lies[,]” and “Fisher and Net.” They told of sea and shore and sky and of the love and devotion in earthly lives, and in the higher life also.

The third article on our programme was by Mrs. William Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson, and was on “Some Curious Old Customs.” We were told of some old customs in England, which have come down through the centuries, from the days when few people could read and write; which seemed to become part of the common law, and which still survive. They may seem absurd to us, but they are picturesque, nevertheless. We were reminded that we, in a country which began to be, with laws ready made, may have life now too much on the dead level of the commonplace.

Mrs. Johnson told of the custom called “Beating the Bounds:” -- the perambulations by which the ancient boundaries of parishes are supposed to be defined and preserved. She described the crowd of parish officers, beadles, and children who rush through streets, fields,-- even through houses, armed with willow wands, wherewith they strike walls, trees, etc[.], once a year; without the fear of making themselves ridiculous, or specifically objectionable. Formerly she said it was the rule, during the perambulation, to whack the little children with

[182]

the wands, by way of impressing on their minds the exact boundaries of their parishes,-- giving them something to remember them by-- which they, no doubt, in turn, gave to the little children that came after them.

We were entertained with the history of these singular surveys from the days of Edward the Third to the present time. These “gang day processions” as they were called, still rush through buildings in London, beating unoffending lamp posts and letter boxes, not sparing the revered Bank of England itself.

Mrs. Johnson spoke of the relics of the feudal system still remaining in England. Especially those old rules recognized in the laws and customs relating to the manor lands, held by royal grants in, and before the reign of Edward the First;-- a manor being something which cannot be created at the present time.

Curious customs relating to Church and to forest, and to tenant rights and service werell described, of much meaning once, and of much interest now. We were told of the legal fiction of the “Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds[“]:-- which was no fiction in the days when the steward was appointed for the protection of the inhabitants in the vicinity of the Chiltern Hills, which were infested with bandits. But now this nominal office, with an almost nominal salary is the resource of dissatisfied members of Parli[a]ment [Parliament], which wish to resign their seats by accepting an office under Government;-- sometimes with the hope of being re-elected on a different “platform.”

When we were told, an Irish Member requests the office of “Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds[,"] it is likely to mean that he is going to desert McCarthy for

[183]

Redmond. We remember that Mr. Thackeray makes our old friend Colonel Newcome run for parliament, for the purpose of defeating his nephew Barnes; but he says beforehand that he will apply for “Chiltern Hundreds” as soon as possible after he is elected.

Our programme being concluded, the President spoke of the proposal that had been made, that we shall have on our Salon evenings, discussions on interesting subjects. Miss Brown [Mary Wilcox] Brown] suggested the subject of Modern Female Poets, and proposed Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese and Mrs. Turner as they members to talk on this theme. Mrs. Graham [Elizabeth Turner] Graham] read a notice of the Readings of Miss Margaret A. Klein at Lehman’s Hall.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)