---
title: 1893-12-05 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-12-05-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[188]

## 93rd Meeting [December 5th, 1893]

The 93rd meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, December 5th, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The very bad state of the weather made the fact not at all surprising that not more than half of the Board of Management, and not a dozen of other members were present. It was impossible to carry out the programme which had been prepared, and it was announced that the articles promised by it would be difficult.

The President gave notice of some books presented to our library: -- one given by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], being the “[Arctic Journal](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/64549/64549-h/64549-h.htm)” of Mrs. [Josephine Diebitsch-]” of Mrs. Perry. Miss Brent [Emma Fenwick] Brent also called particular attention to the “[Guide to the Study of the Nineteenth Century” Authors](https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100026968)" “by Louise Manning Hodgkins. The President also spoke of some lectures to be given by our fellow member, Mrs. Latimer [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer],-- being the fifth week in January.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock spoke of the exhibition given by our fellow member, Miss [Lucy] Comins, of the work of

[189]

herself and her pupils in painting in water, and on China: something of this work having taken a prize at the Chicago Exposition.

The President then suggested that we should have some reading from one or more of the books in our library. For a beginning, she selected the new work of Mrs. Perry, then lying on her table. By request, the Recording Secretary read a few pages from this book.

Before the close of the reading, an invitation in due form was received from Miss [Lucy] Comins, for the Club to visit her artistic exhibition at Nazazer's Building. The meeting adjourned; and a majority of those present accepted the invitation of Miss Comusins, and enjoyed original art as a compensation for the deprivation of original literature.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)