---
title: 1893-10-24 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-10-24-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[154]

## 89th Meeting [Oct. 24th, 1893].

The 89th regular meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, October 24th 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President, Mrs. Brent [Emma Fenwick] Brent, was in the chair. The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of October 17th. The President read a letter from our fellow member, Miss [Henrietta] Szold, resigning her position

[155]

as a member of the Executive Committee, on account of business engagements, which will oblige her to spend part of her time in Philadelphia. The President also announced that Professor Edward Graham Daves had sent to the Club an article of his own on Sir Walter Raleigh's settlement at Roanoke Island, in North America. Also giving the latest discoveries with regard to that very interesting colony.

Miss Brent also announced the names of the Memorial Committee, who have in charge the decoration of the graves of Maryland authors and artists on All Soul's Day. This Committee have power to fill vacancies or to make additions to their number. Mention was also made of the proposal to have given in some of our meetings, interesting accounts of Woman's Work in connection with the World's Fair at Chicago.

The President then announced that the business of Amendments to the Constitution, deferred from last Spring, is now to come before the Club. A few resolutions adopted by the Board of Management in order to facilitate the proposed work of Revision and Amendment of the Constitution were read to the Club, and proposed to be read again at the meeting of October 31st which shall be a business meeting. It was requested that to this meeting no visitors should be invited.

It was understood that we were about to have the pleasure of a visit from Miss [Julia] Marlowe, the actress, and that she would read a paper of her own before the Club. This meeting was under

[156]

the direction of Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett, the chairman of the Committee on Fiction.

The first article of our Programme, was by Mrs. Percy M. [Elizabeth McCormick] Reese, and was a story called “A Mother’s Temptation.” She painted the mature, still handsome mother, and her only son-- the pride and glory of her life. While her son is at College, and she is lonesome, the Mother has sent for Margaret Vance, the daughter of a clergyman—rich only in daughters-- to make her a long visit. Margaret enjoys the elegant environment of her friend, almost as much as the company of her friend herself. But the son comes home, and Margaret, who might appear to the Mother only a pretty rural daisy, is to the son a most exquisite rose. Nor can the unworldly girl of nineteen see many things that are plain to the eyes of the woman of fifty seven. At the first intimation of her son’s love for Margaret, the Mother explains that she has far higher, more ambitious views for him. He answers that these are the first unworthy words, he has ever heard from his Mother. The Mother then tells her guest Margaret, that she feels that she has been very selfish-- in keeping her with her so long, that she discerned in her father’s last letter, a great great desire for his eldest daughter’s presence, that she would telegraph to him to meet his child at the station that evening. Meanwhile the maid can pack her trunks for her and the carriage will be ready for her at the proper time.

Margaret declines the services of the maid, but prepares herself to leave, and goes out to bid

[157]

good by to her dumb friends, the dogs. Of course she meets her lover, and both of them become silently conscious of their love, and of the obstacles in their way.

Meanwhile the Mother, left to herself, fights her battle with the temptation-- confronting her,-- and conquers it.

Margaret returns to the house, to find that the telegraphic dispatch has not been sent, the carriage has not been ordered, her friend will not consent to the proposed departure. Perfect love has cast out-- not fear this time, but-- pride and ambition. For love will still be lord of all.

Miss Marlowe now came in, accompanied by her friend Mrs. Woodward, they were requested to sit near the President, who announced that Miss Marlowe would read to us later in the evening.

The next article on our programme, was a story written and read by Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud. It began with an afternoon tea, at which by one table was seated a lady of fifty, in black satin and very old and very real lace, evidently one of the very self[-]respecting nobility of the Kingdom of Philistia. She greets with enthusiasm, a tall[,] very handsome, very concentrated young woman, whose Greek outlines and pure coloring might perhaps recall to one student of human nature centuries of civilization, to another the fresh young gleaner of ripened grain, unspoiled by our old[-]worldliness.

The elder lady is “so glad” that Mrs. Harwood has asked the younger one to assist at the tea.”

[158]

She is always on the look out for celebrities, and is evidently the right person to have now. She says she is glad that her companion does not respond to the being called an artist with the usual remark "Yes I paint a little." Yet she afterwards shrinks from hearing the young artist speak of her "work"--"as if it were a ["]labor"--adding "Now don't grow strong minded and anti-matrimonial;--the men hate it,["] as if that were conclusive in the matter.

She quotes largely from her friend General Knox, minister to some unpronouncable place; among other things his opinion that a little woman could rule the world, given for the benefit of an unfortunately large one. The small talk of Philistia becomes bright and entertaining, and the Psyche who quietly listens is rather pleased to hear it, with her eye occasionally resting on a small gold ring she wears. Presently the Philistine lady begins to tell of a certain Jack Sherrod, "an artist too, in his way, but artists professionally and socially are different beings, you know." Jack she says is a merciless flirt, and of one of his love affairs last summer at the sea shore they say he really was engaged to her, but he can[']t marry her, she was just any lady, you know, but they say she was superb looking." He is, she says[,] engaged to a great heiress now, and we would not have courage to break that engagement.

While she is talking on in this way, the ring is loosened from the Psyche's finger;--her companion says she is pale and prescribes a cup

[159]

of tea, but does not wish her to sit down--as "she looks so much better standing." Then she tells her--There is the heiress now going up to speak to the hostess. The ring falls, and rolls unnoticed on to the feet of the new-comer--the heiress. A heavy curtain behind the two who have been talking is suddenly and silently parted, and when the lady of Philistia turns from her own inspection of the heiress, the curtain has fallen between her and the other woman.

Miss Marlowe then rose to read to us. She said that she had been unable to give us a specially written article, and could only present the one she had already read at Chicago,[^Chicago] and she hoped that any of the Club who may have heard it there, would be able to hear it again.

[^Chicago]: This is likely a reference to the World Columbian Exposition, held in Chicago from May through October 1893.

It was on Woman's Place in the Drama. She spoke of the History of Dramatic Art especially with regard to the struggle of men, and still more the struggle of women who were on the stage to gain the recognition and the position which is their due; also of the beneficial influence of women here as elsewhere.

As we know, the parts of the women of Shakespeare were at first taken by men. She told of a play given before Charles the Second, when a long delay in beginnings was explained by the announcement that the Queen was not yet shaved.

Miss Marlowe spoke of the prejudice against such an innovation as the presence of women on the stage, late in the 17th Century, of how

[160]

[William] Prynne called actresses monsters,[^Prynne] and how some of those who saw their first efforts in this line only hoped they would never try the same thing again.

[^Prynne]: Reference to William Prynne's _Histriomastix: The Player's Scourge_ (1632).

But the truth and beauty of Shakespeare's women would certainly seem to suggest that Desdemona and Juliet and others could be best personated by women. Once begun, the custom grew rapidly, and actresses soon gained recognition and respect. She recalled to us the women who first won distinction on the stage, also the great actresses of later times. She spoke of Mrs. [Mary Saunderson] Betterton who trained on "carriage and utterance" the Lady Mary, and the Lady Anne, who were both afterwards Queens of England; and both are recorded as having learned from her to pronounce answers to addresses or speeches from the throne, distinctly, clearly and with grace of enunciation.[^Betterton]

[^Betterton]: Mary Saunderson (1637-1712), later married to actor Thomas Betterton, was an early English actress who also was hired by Charles II to instruct his nieces Mary and Anne in elocution. Gay Smith, _Lady Macbeth in America: From the Stage to the White House_ (Palgrave: 2010).

The reverence for genius and the recognition of the dignity of Woman's Work, has advanced truly since the early days of the modern Drama. But it is not many generations ago, since the young Rachel pawned her umbrella for twenty sous to buy a copy of Racine.

Mrs. Marlowe spoke of Mrs. Landon and of her self-sacrificing work in the hospitals during the war, as well as of her work on the stage. We were told how Laura Keene once just before a performance became dissatisfied with the costumes of some of her company and determined to improve them; which she did with a brush and a bucket of black paint, and then said "There, keep apart, don't sit

[161]

down, don't brush against the ladies," and ran off to dress for the part she herself was to take.

Miss Marlowe said that "in Literature, women had not yet won the acknowledgement of creative genius,--nor in music and some other arts. But in Dramatic Art, she stands absolutely side by side with man. Here her emotional and sensitive nature is eminently fitted for success. And her efforts to raise the standard of the stage, and to dignify its intellectual and educational importance have not been in vain. And, what helps to elevate the position of woman in one department, ought to help raise her position in all things. It has been said of the stage in the present day, "Enter boldly, here too there are Gods."

We had been promised an article by Miss [Annie S.] Perot, but as she could not give it to us this afternoon, Miss Bennett had consented to give us a story of her own, called "A Prodigal Friend." She painted for us a frozen landscape, with a village surrounding some mills, and consisting chiefly of the homes of the mill workers. It is Christmas Eve, and a working woman near her own door is accosted by the young minister, who speaks of the half time for work in the mills on that day. The woman says, "It is no odds to me," and seems not much disposed to conversation. The minister with some embarrassment, speaks of the duty of forgiveness and charity even for those who have injured us, in the name of the Babe of Bethlehem. But his words seem to make but little impression on Martha. When later, she is at her own lonely fireside, a neighbor comes in and asks her if she

[162]

has heard the news that Nan Snell has come back to the village, where she ought to be ashamed to show her face, and if she were Martha, she would go and give her a piece of heris mind--give her what she deserves. Then the second woman comments on Martha's preparation for her Christmas dinner, and on the fact that she herself with seven head of children, can not afford a turkey, but will have a roast of beef if she has to borrow a pan to cook it in. She proceeds to borrow the pan from Martha, and leaves with the advice to go and give NVan Snell the tongue lashing she deserves. When she has gone, Martha goes to an old sugar bowl, and takes out a paper. It is her marriage certificate. The neighbor did not know that it was her husband, not her lover whom NVan Snell had run away with.

Secret marriages were not favored by employers, but were practiced by the employed. Martha takes the paper, goes out, fastens the door behind her, and walks off through the snow. She comes to a little house where a light is shining, and looks in at the window. NVan Snell is there, and what she had not expected to see, a little child lying there, beautiful, playful, unconscious of harm. Martha goes in, and NVan Snell, surprised, almost overcome, finds courage to protest that she is an honest woman, that she was married and has papers to prove it.

Martha in the presence of the child cannot answer as she might have done,--some feeling of the Great Birthday is upon her, and the other woman breaks down and begs for pardon, saying that she cannot ask God's forgiveness unless Martha

[163]

has given her hers. Then Martha insists that the fire must be made up, and sends the young mother out for wood. When she has gone, Martha draws out her own precious paper, looks at it, and says "What difference does it make after all?" She quickly takes up the child, and brings it to the fireplace,--puts the paper into the unconscious baby fingers,--holds them out, and says "Drop it, drop it!" It falls upon the embers, shrivels up, burns, and falls into ashes. And the light shines out on the snow, and the rooms seem glorified by a Vision.

We expected to have an article by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, but she insisted on withdrawing it that full time might be given for introducing the members of the Club and their friends to the guests of the meeting.

A motion to thank Miss Marlowe for her beautifully written and beautifully read address was made by Miss [Lydia] Crane, and seconded by Miss Haughton, and carried by acclamation. Some time was passed in special introductions to Miss Marlowe, and Mrs. Woodward, and in pleasant conversation with them.

The meeting then informally adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)