---
title: 1893-10-31 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-10-31-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## **Business Meeting and 27th Salon. [October 31st 1893]

The 27th Salon of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, October 31st, 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. The President, Miss

[164]

[Emma Fenwick] Brent] called the meeting to order and announced that the afternoon had been assigned to business,--the business of considering the Amending of our Constitution, of which we had been notified at the meeting of October 24th. She reminded us that no other business was in order.

Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin then rose to make a motion. She spoke of the general desire to improve our Constitution, and to give every member a fair chance to be heard in reference to this work. She had named a Committee to consider this question, taken partly from the Board of Management, and partly from the general ranks of the Club. She read her proposition as follows, "I rise to make a motion. That the Constitution of this Club be revised; and the following Committee be appointed to present the revisions to this Board to be voted upon. I name

Miss. Mary Wilcox Brown
Miss Edith Duer
Mrs. M. N. Perry
Miss Bennett 
Miss King
Miss Haughton 
Miss Brent [(]ex officio[)]

Some verbal changes were suggested to Mrs. Griffin, and accepted by her. Miss Haughton said that the word revision was of much more sweeping signification than the word "amendment." As finally presented, Mrs. Griffin's proposition read: "I rise to make a motion. That the Constitution of the Club be amended, and that the following Committee be appointed to present the amendments to this Club to be voted upon. I name:--followed by the seven names as before.

Some discussion followed: and the resolutions

[165]

passed by the Board of Management. "On the Amendment of the Constitution" were brought forward.

But it was claimed that Mrs. Griffin's motion had now precedence[?not sure of word"; and the claim was admitted. Comments were made by Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson, Miss Haughton, Miss [Edith] Duer, Mrs. Perry, Miss Brent and others. It was proposed to divide Mrs. Griffith's motion making the first part the amending of the Constitution; and the second part the appointment of the Committee on Amendments. The decision was made[.]. Mrs. Perry was requested to come to the platform, and assist the President in the voting which was to follow. She at first declined, but afterwards consented to do so.

A request was made that where difference of opinion had arisen, a representative woman on each side of the question on hand should give us some information with regard to it. Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown then spoke on extending and widening the work of the Club. Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord and Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock spoke on points of amendment. Mrs. [Thomas S.] Morris, Miss [Mary F.] Grace, and Miss Haughton spoke also. Miss Duer and Miss [Fanny] Hoffman spoke of a general desire for all--not excluding the board of Management, of course--to take part in the proposed work of amendment. Mrs. Johnson spoke of amendment with regard to the conduct of elections, which probably all of us think necessary, also considering the admission of new members.

She said there were a few minor points which it would be well to consider. A general discussion followed. The first part of Mrs. Griffin's motion was voted upon and passed. The motion "that a Committee should be appointed to review suggestions

[166]

for amendments and to consider and formulate them,["] was also passed, the resolution of the Board of Management that proposed amendments[,] suggestions and objections should be sent to the Committee in typewriting before the 10th of December was announced.

Objection was expressed to making typewriting obligatory.[^typing] Miss Cloud afterwards generously offered to put the proposals of the members into typewriting for them.

[^typing]: Although the typewriter was invented decades earlier, it did not come into widespread commercial use until the 1890s. At the time of this meeting, very few Club members would likely have had access to a machine. 

The resolution of the Board that a printed copy of the proposed amendments shall be sent by the Committee to every member for her consideration, before the final meeting for voting upon them was also announced; as well as the time of a final vote on all the Amendments proposed, expected to be six weeks from the present meeting.

It was announced that Miss Bennett [Sarah H.] Bennett] had been elected a member of the Board of Management in place of Miss Szold, who had resigned that position.

After much discussion by Mrs. Morris, Miss Duer, Mrs. Hoffman, Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, Mrs. Griffin [Rebecca Griffin], Mrs. [Louise C.] Haman, Mrs. Lord, Mrs. [Florence] Carter, Mrs. Perry, Mrs. Ridgely [Eliza Ridgely] and other members, the question was called for on Mrs. Griffin's nominations for the Committee on Amendments. Miss Brent and Miss Haughton positively declined serving on this Committee. Several members were proposed who also declined.

Finally Mrs. [Lily Tyson] Manly was nominated in place of Miss Haughton, and Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall in place of Miss Brent. The Committee was elected by

[167]

a spoken and standing vote, counted by Mrs. Perry. The first nomination was that of Miss[Mary Wilcox] Brown, who received thirty four--34--affirmative votes, to eight--8--negative ones.

The second name was that of Miss Duer, who received twenty nine--29--affirmative, to thirteen--13--negative votes. The third name was that of Mrs. Perry, who was almost unanimously elected. The fourth name was that of Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett, who was elected with no apparent opposition. The fifth name was that of Miss King, who received twenty five--25--affirmative, to sixteen--16--negative votes. Mrs. Manly and Mrs. Wrenshall were elected with no apparent opposition.

The Committee on Amendments then stood: Miss Brown, Chairman; Miss Duer; Mrs. Perry; Miss Bennett; Miss King; Mrs. Manly; and Mrs. Wrenshall.

After the business meeting adjourned, the rest of the afternoon was spent in conversation--and refreshment.

Note. The Secretary's Minutes of this meeting read and adopted at the succeeding meeting of November 7th, were borrowed by several members; and unfortunately mislaid by "some one." After a long delay, the Secretary has been obliged to re-write her report from the original notes, which were hasty and attenuated, but as accurate as she could make them of such a confused meeting.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)