---
title: 1893-11-28 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-11-28-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[48]

## Board of Management. November 28th, 1893. 

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday, November 28th, 1893, on the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. There were ten members present;--the President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent;--First Vice President, Miss [Elizabeth T.] King,--Second Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtauld Osburne] Haughton,--Recording Secretary, Miss [Lydia] Crane,--Treasurer, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock,--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann,--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett,--and Miss [Mary Wilcox] Brown.

The President called the meeting to order. Questions having been proposed with regard to the powers of the Special Committee on Amendments, particularly one concerning the right of the members of this Committee to suggest and present Amendments, as well as to consider and report them; the President said that the members of the Committee ought certainly to have the right, as members of the Club, to present Amendments for consideration and for decision by the Club.

To prevent misunderstanding Mrs. Bullock moved that the Special Committee shall have power to present Amendments offered by its

[49]

own members--before the reading of the Amendments to the Club--with the Amendments offered by other members also, for its consideration and submission to the Club. The motion was adopted.

The questions of a blackboard and of a bulletin board, and of other small expenses were brought forward; and the House Committee was authorized to go beyond in some degree the appropriation of $10.00 made for these purposes. Also 25 cents to a boy for carrying books, and 50 cents for laundry work was appropriated.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)