---
title: 1893-11-28 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1893-11-28-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[183]

## 28th Salon [November 28th, 1893]**

The 28th Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, November 28th 1893, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President called the meeting to order. She gave notice that the Committee on the Essayists, of which Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord is Chairman[,] would have charge of our next meeting on Dec. 5th.

The Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of Nov. 21st. She also read a notice of the Club from one of our newspapers, followed by extracts from a review of the new work of Mrs. Lord, “In the Days of Lamb and Coleridge.” The President announced that this book of Mrs. Lord had been presented to the Club,-- for which thanks were tendered.

The announcement was also made of some other

[184]

books lately given to the Club. The President announced that this meeting was under the charge of Miss Bond, chairman of the Committee on Education, and that the only article on our programme was one by Miss [Sally K.] Carter, which would be followed by our open discussion.

Miss Bond gave a short introduction to the subject of the evening. She spoke of the Committee on Education, formed two years ago; of its investigation of the Public schools of our own city, and of its Report on this subject given last Fall. Also of the dignity and vital importance of right education; of the high standards and breadth of view we must all desire to maintain and of the vigilance necessary to keep away all that is false or superficial from the training of future generations, as well as from the work of to day. She spoke of some well known workers in this field with us, of Mrs. Toulmin Smith in England, and of Miss De Graffenried in this country; and also of the interest shown in the work of her own Committee by Professor Herbert B. Adams, Professor Wise, and others. She spoke of the object of the Committee;-- to help each other,-- to gain definite information, and form just conclusions,- and to assist in forming correct public opinions;-- for behind the power of the ballot lies the power of public opinion.

Miss Bond went on to speak of the subjects discussed or written upon, in her Committee; such as manual training,-- co-education,-- the training necessary for the profession of teaching,-- the opportunities for mental improvement given to those who have passed through the public schools etc. She ended by introduread-

[185]

-cing Miss Carter’s paper as one of those which had been read to the Committee and would be of interest to the Club.

Miss Carter announced her subject as “The Inadequacy of the Private Schools for Girls, and a suggested Remedy[.]” Miss Carter spoke of the great educational strides made in these swift-winged days of our own country; and of the many doors now wide open to women. She spoke of having been struck, while on a visit to Germany, with the excellence of the primary school in Berlin, the early training fitting the child fully for that which is to follow, with steadiness of purpose. She reminded us that the public schools of this country being under some official supervision have a general uniformity of management, which private schools have not. Then from the point of view of a teacher she described the inadequacy;-- the want of uniformity of standards, or co-operations, or fixed purpose; and the vacillation, the laxity, the lack of systems, which she believes to exist in the private schools for girls in our own time and country.

She said she would suggest as a remedy that an association of private teachers should be formed to adopt uniform standards and grades, and to employ lectures on pedagogic subjects, whose lectures all members should bind themselves to attend. There might be six of these lectures in a season. The membership of this association need not be restricted to teachers alone, but could admit others deeply interested or engaged in educational work. Such an association could confer diplomas, after examinations, on students in private schools,-- distinct from school diplomas, the diplomas of the associations to admit theirse holders

[186]

to College matriculation. Miss Carter reminded us that not only the children of the poor, but the children of the rich and moderately prosperous, must be given the sound and true education that shall fit them for the lives they are to live. And let us join hands to keep these minds and hearts pure, and their heads clear and right to save our land from the waves of corruption that threaten it. Let us band ourselves together to obtain the help of the best and strongest women of our own time and country. Perhaps none will be better than those of our own Club.

Whether we all fully agreed with Miss Carter’s premises or conclusions or not, her article was of great interest to all of us;-- so was the discussion that followed it.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock spoke of those girls who are not fitted to be college students, but who often make very charming wives and mothers; also of the great differences in the minds of girls, which often make necessary very different modes of teaching and training; and of those too who cannot be graded. Miss Carter described different courses of study to be given to different minds, as well as to backward or physically weak children. Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann asked if individuality might not be destroyed? Miss Carter said she thought the friction of bringht minds would do away with any loss of individuality, though she admitted that possibly there might be a little loss in the amount of the personal magnetism of the teacher.

One member while acknowledging the great benefit of the Kindergarten for the children of the very poor, still, as a motherly naively confessed to a little jealousy

[187]

of the Kindergarten for children who have mothers of their own to take care of them at home. Miss Carter spoke of the children who were left to nurses, and for whom the Kindergarten might do parental work.

Miss [Annie C.] Volck said that Miss Carter’s plan was an admirable on in many respects, but there may be a vulnerable point in a powerful machine. Many schools are taught as a matter of profit, of dollars and cents, and we hear that it is hard to make them pay. Some owe their success to the phase of religious belief which they represent,-- some are endowed, and others are inadequate to compete with them. In many schools the teachers can not run the risk of losing pupils, and must conform to the wishes of the different parents. There was also danger of the disappearance of the individual characteristics which schools like homes possess. But Miss Volck thought the standard of teaching should certainly be made higher than it is now, and the government should take more interest in education than it has done so far “We have[,”] she said -- [“]a Secretary of State, one of War, one of Agriculture etc.;-- why not a Secretary of Education also?[^Ed] But this should not be a political office at all.” We have inspectors of buildings; but there are buildings here not make with hands, which have no inspectors from city, state, or federal government.

[^Ed]: The first U.S. Secretary of Education, Oveta Culp Hobby, was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953.

There was further discussion; and Miss Carter also spoke to us of working according to ideals, as well as according to ideas.

Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], Miss [Elizabeth T.] King, Miss Bond, Miss [Mary Wilcox Brown and Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin gave us suggestions and

[188]

Information of much interest;-- but the time grew so late that the President called for an adjournment.

A vote of thanks was passed to Miss Carter, and to all who had taken part in the discussion of the subject of the evening. The rest of the time we were together was passed over coffee, chocolate and other good things, accompanied by some further amicable interchange of views and opinions on the questions still uppermost in our minds.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)