---
title: 1894-04-17 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-04-17-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## MS 988, Box 3 (Book dated Dec. 26, 1893- June 9, 1894)

## 188th Meeting [Apr. 17, 1894]

The 108th Meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, April 17th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. Waller [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, Chairman of the Committee on Education. The President called the Club to order, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of April 10th.

The first article of the programme was by Mrs. Bullock; and was called "Education in Old Maryland." Mrs. Bullock gave us some information regarding the efforts made by our forefathers, the colonists of our country, to give their children all the advantages of education within their reach.

[116]

In New England, the highest class was the educated one, as they understood and appreciated education. We were reminded that the educational idea in Maryland was naturally different from that of New England. That Maryland was conservative, and had an aristocratic form of government. Some of the colonists sent their sons to be educated in the old country, of course. The very early and later educational advantages given to those who remained in the colony were explained to us, in a review extending from the year 1671 to 1812,--when the system of what we call free schools came into existence. Mrs. Bullock read accounts of different schools and of academies, such as King William's School, still surviving, in St. John's College at Annapolis, and Washington College at Chestertown, as well as others of earlier date. The early academies of Maryland were called free schools, not from any teaching without pay;--but because they agave a liberal education; or what their founders believed to be such. We were told of the acts of the Governors and of the General Assembly, and of a petition to the King and Queen, William and Mary, among the efforts of our ancestors for the advancement of learning. Some very curious advertisements relating to schools or teachers were read to us. We were told of the singular custom of buying a schoolmaster; that is, that the substantial residents of Maryland, when they went to meet the ships from England arriving at their wharves,

[117]

to engage the indentured servants who had come over in them, they would often buy the time--the term of years--of a school master, as they would that of a carpenter, or of any artisan.

As time went on, the education of poor children unable to pay, began to receive attention. In one school it was announced that negroes would be instructed in the fear of the Lord gratis; but that all other Religious education was never neglected in Maryland, and our state has never been without its share of educated men.

The next article on our programme was by Miss [Jane] Zacharias, and was "A Few Personal Recollections of Mr. S. Teackle Wallis."--the distinguished citizen whose recent loss we all must feel.[^Wallis] Miss Zacharias spoke of old St. Paul St, of the square down town, where the houses are all old, and many of them have little signs bearing the words "Attorney at Law" upon them. St. Paul Street, [we] were reminded, after crossing the dividing line of Baltimore street, takes the name of Light street, and like a shop girl out for a holiday, skips down to the wharves. One of the old houses in St. Paul street built of pressed brick, and retaining what the other have lost, the old trees that were before it long ago, was--only a few days past--the home of the man who had made our city better because he had lived in it. After speaking of the solemn funeral in St. Paul's Church on Friday, the 13th of the present month. Miss

[118]

Zacharias went on to tell of a phase in the life of Mr. Wallis which had made an ineffaceable impression upon her. When the Legislature of Maryland met in Frederick in the stormy days of 1861, the session was opened with prayer by her father. Mr. Zacharias, afterwards led daughter,--one of a band of school girls, to hear Mr. Wallis speak. We were told of his good English, his power and self control in debate, and the ability that was tried in the memorable session. Miss Zacharias also spoke of having seen Mr. Wallis at the funeral of Chief Justice Taney; and of his standing by the grave with an expression on his face that raised her thoughts to that heaven in which we can still look for stars. Miss [Mary E.] Evans and Miss [Mary. F.] Grace told anecdotes illustrating Mr. Wallis's sympathetic courtesy and independence.

[^Wallis]: Severn Teackle Wallis (1816-1894) was a Baltimore lawyer and politician who advocated for Maryland's secession from the United States in the special session of the Maryland Legislature that was held in Frederick, Maryland (rather than the state capitol, Annapolis) in the spring of 1861. Wallis was later imprisoned for supporting the Confederacy. His attendance at Roger Taney's funeral, described by Zacharias, indicates his continuing support of the Confederacy throughout his life (as well as the likely support of Zacharias, Evans, and Grace). 

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Mary G. Welles, Instructor in Greek, in the Woman's College of Baltimore. Miss Welles spoke of the aim of College education for women, as not necessarily to teach them Greek or Sciences. It was not so much to graduate scholars, as women,--women with sound and great minds, in sound and graceful bodies. She told of the foundation of the Woman's College of Baltimore seven years ago, of its endowment, its buildings, its courses of study, its students, and something of its apparent outlook. She dwelt particularly on the department of Physical Culture, and the results obtained from it. Miss Welles quoted some sentences from an address by Professor Charles E. Norton.

[119]

In speaking of the alleged tendency of Democracy to vulgarity he dwelt upon the responsibility of preserving the refinement of our nation which rests chiefly upon its young women,--with their power over the hearts and souls of all around them.

The last article on our programme was by Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Davis, who is taking a course of mathematics at the Johns Hopkins University, and is also making calculations for the Government's Natural Almanac. The subject of Mrs. Davis's article was "A Few Women at the University." She began by reminding us that the time is past when a woman was expected to "eat strawberries and cream, and sit on a cushion, and sew up a seam." She referred to the opinion of Curtis that there is a waste of reserved power when cultivation is given to the mind of one sex only. And to that of Sidney Smith, that nature has been as bountiful in the matter of intelligence to one sex as to the other. Mrs. Davis spoke of the College for Women; Vassar, Smith, Wellesley, etc., and of the Colleges in which women have been admitted as students. She thought it would be eminently desirable for the Johns Hopkins University, which has taken rank with the Universities of Germany,--to open its doors to women as well as to men. So far, only the Medical School of the University has done so. And this has been brought about by the Endowment Fund of Miss Garrett,[^JHU] and of other women working with her. Women have,--a few of them, studied at the Johns Hopkins University, and a few are doing so now, but for the most part without full recognition

[^JHU]: Mary Elizabeth Garrett (1854-1915) was the daughter of B&O Railroad president John Work Garrett. In 1890, with several education-minded friends, she established the Women's Medical Fund that enabled the founding of the medical school at Johns Hopkins University provided "the trustees agreed to admit women on the same terms as men." Christine Ladd-Franklin, as mentioned later in the paragraph, attended graduate courses at Johns Hopkins and completed coursework for a doctorate in mathematics (conferred by the College of Arts and Sciences rather than the medical school). She did not receive her degree until 1929, 44 years after she completed degree requirements. [Celebrating the Philanthropy of Mary Elizabeth Garrett] (https://exhibits.library.jhu.edu/exhibits/show/celebrating-the-philanthropy-o/the-women-s-medical-school-fun)

[120]

as students there. Our fellow member in this Club, Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], was the first of these women as students there, under Professor Sylvester, and obtained a fellowship there. Mrs. [Florence] Bascom, from whom Mrs. Davis read to us a letter, was the only woman who has ever taken a degree there. But the fear was expressed that the doors of our University will not be thrown open to women, until another Miss Garrett shall be found to give the golden touch,--to speak the open sesame. Mrs. Davis closed her article by reading Sidney Lanier's Ode, commemorating the fourth anniversary of the founding of the Johns Hopkins University.

Discussion then followed on the effect of college training on home life, and whether it is beneficial or injurious to the women who are to be the wives and mothers, and to make the homes of our country's future? It was related that the question was brought to the attention of the students of Vassar College, whether "sweet girl graduates" were as apt to get married, as other sweet girls? That the Vassar girl rose in her wrath, and studied statistics on the subject. The result proved, we were told[,] that quite as many college girls as married as other girls, and that the statistics showed one divorce only among them. The discussion by Mrs. [Lily Tyson] Manly, Miss Grace, Miss Welles, Mrs. Warren and others, was carried on with earnestness and vivacity.

The President announced that all of us who wished to propose new names for membership in the Club, were requested to send them to the Recording Secretary on or before Tuesday April 24th. Another

[121]

announcement was made of the reduced rates offered to the Club for seats at the performance of Hamlet by Mr. Creston Clark[e] on Monday night. The President said it had been proposed to send some flowers to Miss Martha Ford on Monday night, and she wished to know if it was the desire of the Club to do so? By a vote the question was decided in the affirmative.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)