---
title: 1894-01-22 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-22-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[57] 

## Board of Management. January 22nd, 1894. 

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Monday, January 22nd, 1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. Seven members attended this meeting,--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--Recording Secretary [Lydia Crane],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Mrs. [Aileen B. C] Dammann,--Miss [Grace] Balch,--Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early,--and Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord.--The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the former meeting on January 16th.

The President announced that Miss Kate Mason Rowland had informed us that she would not be able to become an active member of the CLub, as much of her time was now spent in Washington; but that she would accept non-

[58]

resident membership. Miss Brent proposed that Miss Rowland, who had already been elected a member of the Club, should be made a non-resident member. The Board of Management voted to make Miss Rowland a non-resident member.

Miss Brent nominated Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock as Corresponding Secretary of the Club. Miss Balch seconded the motion; and Mrs. Whitelock was elected unanimously.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord nominated Mrs. Wrenshall for the vacant place on the Board of Management. Miss Brent seconded the nominated; and Mrs. Wrenshall was elected.

The President laid before us the proposal to have the monthly Tea of the Club for the month on the 23rd of January instead of the 30th. The Colonial Dames were invited to be present with us on the 23rd; and would miss their own Tea by accepting the invitation. It would make very little difference to anticipate by one week our monthly entertainment. There was no opposition to this proposal.

The President, Mrs. Dammann and others spoke of the desirability of

[59]

having the use of our Committee room at all times; but also of the undesirability of opening the door to outsiders who might take advantage of it.

Some questions regarding the library, the janitress,--the blackboard, etc., were discussed. Also questions with regard to the voting in of new members, in relation to our Incorporation,--to our Chapter,--to future literary meetings etc.

The declination of membership in the Club by Mrs. Remson, on account of many engagements, was announced.

Names were mentioned of desirable new members, and of those who, it was believed, desired to enter the Club.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)