---
title: 1894-04-03 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-04-03-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## MS 988, Box 3 (Book dated Dec. 26, 1893- June 9, 1894)

[94]

## 106th Meeting. April 3rd, 1894.

The 106th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday April 3rd, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. Edmond [Martha Lee] Jenkins, Chairman of the Committee on Fiction. The President called the meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of March 20th and March 27th. The President announced the reception from Professor Edward Graham Daves, of a pamphlet containing the Report of the North Carolina Society of the Cincinnati, now more than one hundred years old. Notice was also given of the special business meeting of the Club to be held on the succeeding Friday afternoon, April 5th. The President said she hoped all of us would attend that meeting who could possibly do so; that the business claiming attention was simple but important.

The first literary paper given us was by Mrs. [Martha Lee] Jenkins, and was called “A Review of English Fiction.” Mrs. Jenkins took us back to the earliest known English Literature, to Caedmon and the gift of song and story which came to him in sleep by his own belief, and in a miracle by the belief of some of his contemporaries. After speaking of Chaucer, the first great English poet, and his renowned Canterbury Tales, she dwelt upon Edmund Spenser. Of his “Faery Queen,” and its loveliness and its lengthiness she quoted the

[95]

opinion of [Thomas Babington] Macaulay and Charles Lamb. Then upon immortal Shakespeare, and upon Goethe’s dream of all famed writers passing in procession, and of the great William leading all the rest. Mrs. Jenkins went on to speak of Robinson Crusoe as really the first English novel.[^Crusoe] Then of [Samuel] Richardson, and of other writers of the eighteenth century, many of whom are too tedious for the reading of the lovers of fiction of to day. She thought the nineteenth century the time of novels. She spoke of the present fashion to disapprove of [William Makepeace] Thackeray and [Charles] Dickens and [Edmund] Bulwer[-Lytton] and George Eliot and Charlotte Bronte. But she found some consolation in remembering the doctrine of the survival of the fittest;[^Spencer] that these authors may live again and still be read when forgetfulness has fallen upon some of those who are now showing what the Autocrat of the Breakfast Table calls “a weak flavor of genius, which is detestable.” Mrs. Jenkins spoke of women in literature, of literary society, and its purpose and mental magnetism, and of that moderate amount of mutual admiration among literary people, which has its uses and is not to be despised.

The first story on our programme was by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, and was called “Fin de Siecle” Old Maryland. Mrs. Lord painted a dear, old, sleepy little village; in which are old fashioned country stores, where boys and darkies would seem to be the only customers, and domestic animals, and poultry the chief frequenters. But on “the hill” are old colony houses, built of brick and tiles brought from England;

[96]

and within them the furniture and customs of Queen Anne’s time. Even now the whist, the gossip, the family pride and the cousinship still survive; although war and emancipation have wrought them change, and the necessity for, and the presence of “summer boarder” are working theirs also. Still the distinction is kept up between those resident families who worship in the old church of St. James, and those “other people” who attend the Baptist or Methodist services. We were given pictures of afternoon tea, and tennis and love-making, ending with a wedding trip to the World’s Fair; and the opening of the gates of prejudice and conventionalism which are never to be closed again.

The next article of the programme was made up of two sketches by Miss Virginia [Woodward] Cloud; “An United Tragedy,” and “Bartley.” These were the third and fourth of the Philistia Stories, of which Miss Cloud had, as we were glad to remember, given us the first on the afternoon when Miss [Julia] Marlowe was the guest of the Club. Miss Cloud’s first story told of a party on a yacht, with a Chinese cook, and various musical instruments, and gay conversation; in which last Mr. Granby takes little part; and a blonde boy just twenty one, takes no part at all. Grandy alone knows that the boy will not eat or sleep, that he has had a letter which turned his face white, and has made him sick and silent. Soon the talk turns to stories of mermaids and sea-serpents; and Grandy

[97]

tells of a green and white ghost. She was a ghost, though the man she bewitched thought her a woman; and her hair was yellow and she cared only for gold. She conquered him before he found her out. Just before the wedding day she eloped with his cousin, who had just received a fortune. It was good for the first man however, for the cousin was killed in a duel about her soon after, and she went on being more alluring than ever. A little later, the untold tragedy comes near to being a tragedy to be told indeed. Granly seizes the boy ready to plunge into the sea, and holds him mind and body fast to his life. Then the boy asks if the ghost’s name was Helene? So it was: but when the boy is brought back to reason, it is Granly’s turn to whisper Helene, as he stands looking out upon the dark waves.

Miss Cloud’s second story “Bartley,” opens with a church fair, for a new organ, and secondarily for charity children; with all the usual attractions; including living pictures of all nations; and music also,--the marvelous tenor from the metropolis having been engaged at a marvelous price, to sing on the last night. Miss Cloud placed the scenes and the various actors before us, bringing out the humor and pathos of the denouement; when the great tenor, at the end of the entertainment gives a sign to the charity boys, and sings with them “Jerusalem the Golden,” thereby revealing himself as their old comrade, the adopted child of an old chair-woman, as Bartley, a supposed ne’er do well

[98]

who had been made to leave town in disgrace, after mischievous pranks. He finally disappears from our view, declining invitations from the patrons of the fair holding [the] arm of his old mother, as he calls her, for whom he has made a home--but leaving on a slip of paper in one of the hands that he has shaken, a receipt in full for payment of his services to the fair. And the verdict of his old detractors is: “A gentleman, by the grace of God.”

The next article was given by Mrs. Frederick [Florence McIntyre] Tyson, and was her own translation from Italian of a story by Salvatore Farina, called “An Irrevocable Separation.” Mrs. Tyson prefaced the story with some remarks on the Italian language and literature. She spoke of the opinion of most great scholars that the most beautiful of all languages spoken on earth is the Greek, but she thought that one who had wandered through the streets of Athens, and heard both the Greek and the Italian spoken, would give the palm for beauty to the Italian. She spoke of the Italian fiction of to day as pure and refined, its writers showing a respect for women, thus differing greatly from their ancestors the Latins, but following the later school of Dante and Petrarch. She told us of Salvatore Farina, who has the grace of style of Washington Irving;--who has been called the Dickens of his country--but this only means that he has a great deal of humor. Farina is a resident of Milan, a student, and the conductor of a paper. His

[99]

works have never before been translated into English, so far as known, though they have been published in Spanish, Russian, German, even in Turkish translations. After enumerating some of Farina’s works, Mrs. Tyson read to us his story of Sulspicio and Concetta, who for fifty five years were always declaring themselves irrevocably separated. This kind of thing had begun on their wedding tour, when after their first quarrel, they had agreed to take each other on trial once more, and they went on irrevocably separating and coming together again in the course of an hour or two--until Concetta dies, and, in the course of an hour or two Sulspicio lies down and dies too, true to the old habit. The male and female pair of peacemakers of the old couple, who have married each other in the course of the story, have their first quarrel just before this last perfect reunion of the poor old husband and wife is announced to them. They can only say “We too, is it not so?”

The last story given us was by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, and was called: “His Buried Sorrow.” It was a sequel to another one called: “The Minister’s Wife.” The Minister had buried an uncongenial wife and was popularly supposed to be inconsolable. The comments of his parishioners were variously and entirely wrong concerning his grief. Meanwhile there was a little insignificant girl to whom he had once had shown a tenderness, somewhat inconsistent with the proper gravity of demeanor suitable to his holy calling and his position. But being free now from unpleasant

[100]

ties, he did the attention to the little insignificant girl that she and himself might have supposed would follow in due time. He treated with disgust the rumor that this small unimportant maiden was engaged to a rich man. But when the rich man came and asked him to officiate at the wedding--he felt,--”well" said the story, "we all know how he felt,--but we would never acknowledge it.” He read the service, with great solemnity, but the little insignificant girl did not look at him but at the man he was making her husband.

At the close of the readings Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham made some explanations with regard to the story, and to the one to which it was a sequel. Miss [Mary E.] Evans asked if it was taken from life. Miss Haughton answered that it was a composite story, that six widowers had been made into one. Mrs. Graham thanked Mrs. Jenkins for the afternoon’s entertainment. The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[^Crusoe]: _Robinson Crusoe_, by Daniel Defoe (1660-1731), was published in 1719. Defoe, along with Samuel Richardson and Henry Fielding, were considered originators of the novel in England in the eighteenth century. Thackeray, Dickens, Bulwer-Lytton, Eliot, and Bronte, were prominent novelists of the nineteenth century.

[^Spencer]: The "doctrine of the survival of the fittest," now generally associated with Charles Darwin, actually originated in Herbert Spencer's _Social Darwinism_ (1852), and it is Spencer to whom Jenkins is referring here.

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)