---
title: 1894-04-24 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-04-24-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[121]

## 33rd Salon. April 24th, 1894.

The 33rd Salon of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, April 24th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, Chairman of the Committee on Archaeology. The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of April 17th.

The first article on the programme was by Miss Pauline Covington Rust; and was entitled "Among the Mounds of the Shenandoah Valley." Miss Rust spoke of the very few pre-historic remains of our own country as compared with the rich discoveries in other lands. Also of the difference in this respect between the Northern and the Central portions of the Western Continent;--the latter giving us relics of Aztec, Toltec and Peruvian civilizations. She went on to speak of the various theories advanced with regard

[122]

to the origin of the Indian tribes of America. Those students who are convinced of the Semitic descent of our Red men, still find difficulties in proving their claims. But those who think them the remains of the lost Tribes of Israel, can tell us of an Indian tribe who will not touch hog's flesh. We were told that the Aztec priest in old Mexico, wore on his left foot the symbol of the owl;--just as the Egyptian priest had done on the banks of the Nile long ages ago. We were reminded of Charles Egbert Craddock's [(Mary Noailles Murfree)] story of the graves of the "Strange Little People" in the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee; and of the modern mountaineers' innocent belief that only little children had been buried there. We were reminded of the Mound Builders of the Mississippi Valley. Also of the Cliff Dwellers of our own South West, and of the late discoveries of Mr. Cushing with regard to their altars, showing the definite purpose and intention of their position and structure. Miss Rust then told us of what she herself had seen among the mounds of the Shenandoah Valley. She spoke of the Massanutten Mountains of this portion of Virginia, with the phenomenon belonging to them, that their peaks seemed to be arranged in clusters of three corroborating the old Indian name "Massanets"--meaning "three tops."

In this Shenandoah Valley, Mr. Gerard Fowke of Washington, has, in the interests of the

[123]

Smithsonian Institute, been making investigations into some of the Indian mounds and battle fields. Three miles from the village of Luray he has caused to be opened a mound in which skeletons, and implements, ornaments etc. of great interest have been found. Miss Rust had accepted Mr. Fowke's invitation to visit this mound; and had there seen skeletons lying in layers, alternating with layers of flat stones. Some of the bones were charred black, giving a gruesome suggestion of the practices of savages in this continent,--and in the other one too--of disposing of their prisoners of war. Miss Rust described copper arrow heads, carvings, etc., and told us that many ancient and curious articles have recently been placed in the Smithsonian Institute at Washington. One of these ancient ornaments Miss Rust was allowed to bring home herself, and to keep--for a time. Before long however, it was found broken, and soon after, not found at all. She could not help connecting its disappearance with the remark of her colored handmaiden: "Dat are thing shoah to bring haunts to the house." The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, spoke of some singular customs among the ancient Scandinavians, as resembling those of the North American Indians.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. John D. [Maud Graham] Early, and was "A Short Study of the Primitive Alphabet." Mrs. Early reviewed the various theories that have been advanced with regard to the origin of the arts of reading and writing, from the rudest picture signs to

[124]

the modern well developed alphabet. Theories often lead us through error into truth. She spoke of the story of Cadmus, the man from the East, but reminded us of the Assyrian alphabet existing before the alleged era of Cadmus. She quoted Rudyard Kipling's lines describing old Adam scratching in the mould with a stick, and the comment of the Prince of Evil that "it was very pretty, but was it Art?["] Yet Adam, she thought, knew the stars above him, and after his fashion read them. His descendant, Noah, read the meaning of the rainbow also. And the mark set upon Cain must have been recognized, if not read by his contemporaries. After speaking of ancient Hieroglyphics, and of the cuneiform of wedge-shaped writing of Assyria, Mrs. Early went on to speak of the arrow head sculptured characters, and the bull's head which came to be represented by a triangle, as leading up to the Alpha, known so often as the first letter in ancient and modern alphabets. After speaking of some still existing papyrus documents--older than Moses; she reminded us of the debt which modern students owe to the Moabite Stone and to the Rosetta Stone, and some other enduring records. She traced the evolution of some single characters, shown us on the blackboard the supposed progress of the letter m, for instance, from the owl's head through the Hieroglyphic Hieratic, Hebrew, Phoenician, Greek and Latin forms to the familiar thirteenth letter _m_ of our own alphabet. The true alphabet was, we were told[,] of Semitic origin like the true religion, and we cannot limit the

[125]

antiquity of so good a gift of the Divine Love to the human race.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. M. W. [Morton Wortham] Sloan, and was on "The Story of the Sphynx." Mrs. Sloan spoke of the buried figure and the grand old head that has looked out with inscrutable gaze for thousands of years, the symbol of all time keeping the secrets of all the ages. Could we imagine what message those lips would have for us, if speech were given to them now? And what was the voice and message of those who lived around him in his youth? Ruskin would call him the work of a good man, a true artist. Mrs. Slaon went on to speak of the spiritual meaning of Egyptian Art, contrasting and comparing it with Assyrian and Grecian Art. Neither Assyria nor Greece understood or appreciated the Sphynx of Egypt, but turned the grand conception into less ennobling forms. We were reminded of the Egyptian faith in the Sun-God; and also of the fact that the succeeding generations gave to the Sphynx the face of the living and reigning king. To them it was the symbol of light and of life--present and to come. Mrs. Slaon described and represented to us the Egyptian symbol for the principle of life; which was like some other ancient signs a trinity of symbols, together making a cross. The upright bar represented man, the horizontal one, woman, and it was crowned with a cross--not the cross of the Hindoo, nor of the Greek, but wonderfully like that cross which to

[126]

millions of Christians represents the central fact in human history. The philosophers of Egypt seem to have been acquainted with electricity and with other things in which we ourselves are novices. May not the secret of the Sphynx have been grander than anything its interpreters have been able to tell us of it? May not the wise Egyptians have been entrusted with the prophetic vision of the incarnation and of the redemption of man,--of the eternal power of the cross?

At the close of Miss Sloan's article, the President made a few remarks suggesting that the Club should take into consideration the founding of a memorial chapel, for distinguished Marylanders, first for literary people, and afterwards for military heros, and others of our own state who are worthy of honor. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham said that while she approved the President's idea, she thought we might do something to help the living, to uphold the struggling genius and talent of our state. The President said she thought we might be able very soon to lay aside a little fund to commemorate distinguished Marylanders. She then invited the members present to take a cup of tea together; and the literary meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)