---
title: 1894-04-10 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-04-10-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## MS 988, Box 3 (Book dated Dec. 26, 1893- June 9, 1894)

## 107th Meeting. April 10th, 1894.

The 107th meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, April 10th, 1894, at the

[104]

corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, Chairman of the Committee on Unwritten History. Owing to the inclemency of the weather, the number present was unusually small; and some changes were made in the prepared program; but the papers read were highly appreciated and enjoyed. The President called the meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of April 3rd.

The President read a letter from Mrs. Charlotte Emerson Brown, President of the Federation of Women's Clubs of America, welcoming the entrance of our Club into the Federation. Also a letter from Miss Mary B. Temple, of Tennessee, one of the Corresponding Secretaries of the Federation, expressing her especial pleasure in welcoming a Southern Club into the Association. She spoke of loving her whole country, but of having a warm corner of her heart for the South. The hope was expressed that we would be represented at the Biennial Meeting of the Federation in May, in the city of Philadelphia. We were shown the badge of the Federation, which can be procured, and worn if desired by any of our own members. It was much admired. Our President spoke of the suggestion to join the Federation, as having come first from our fellow member, Miss [Leonora] Griffith. Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent also spoke of the influence of our own literary work on women in different portions of our city.

The first article on our programme was by

[105]

Miss Mary D. [Dorsey] Davis, and was on the Honorable William Burgess. It was an account of the earliest colonists of our own state of Maryland, the leader of the emigrants that [lived] on South River, in the year 1650. We were reminded that England, in the infancy of her American Colonies, did not realize their value, but left their development to private enterprise. Col. Burgess brought to Maryland at different times, about 150 colonists; among them the ancestors of some of the most distinguished families of our state. His own family arms connect him with Truro, in Cornwall. In his epitaph on the stone--still standing near South river, which was erected by his "loving wife" to perpetuate the worthy deserts of her dear Maryland, we learn that he died in 1688, about 64 years of age, that he had been a member of Lord Baltimore's Council of State, one of his Lordship's Deputy Governors, a Justice of the High Provincial Court,--Colonel of a regiment, and sometimes General of the Military forces of the Province of Maryland.

Miss Davis told of the Anglo-Catholics, and of the Puritans who found refuge under the patronage of Sir William Burgess and Governor Stone. She spoke of the founding of Annapolis in 1649, and of the district that was erected into a County in 1650, and named Anne Arundel, after the daughter of Lord Arundel of Wardour,--the wife of Cecilius Calvert. William Burgess, we were told, founded the now extinct town of London, formerly called the successful rival of Annapolis. In 1657, Colonel

[106]

Burgess was appointed one of the Burgesses of Anne Arundel County, but refused to take the usual oath, interpreting the command to "swear not at all" literally for which he was fined, and another put in his place. But he afterwards made his peace with Lord Baltimore; and in consideration of his usefulness, was pardoned "without trial or fine." Colonel Burgess's scruples may perhaps be traced to the influence of George Fry and his followers, who had gathered large congregations and made many "Friends" in Maryland. About the year 1688, Colonel Burgess was a member of the Council to settle boundaries between the lands accorded to William Penn and those accorded to Lord Baltimore. These two great leaders evidently became good neighbors; and it is recorded that at one time, Penn conducted Lord and Lady Baltimore to a "Quaker meeting," at a place called in the account Tred Haven. The lady is described as a "courteously carriaged woman." She had been the widow of Councillor Henry Sewall of Patuxent River; and Colonel Burgess's daughter Susannah married her son, one of the Sewalls. It appears that Colonel Burgess went back more than once to England, and copies of some quaint old documents were read to us relating to his actions on both sides of the ocean. He was a member of the assembly of the Colony; and was always a leader in measures of justice to the red men, as well as in protecting the rights of his fellow citizens. Miss Davis spoke of our grateful recollections of the benevolent character

[107]

of the early laws and resolutions of the Assembly of our Province for the protection of friendly Indians. Every acre of land was paid for. Father White testifies to the moderation, conjugal fidelity, and general good character of the Indians of Maryland, and says: "If once imbued with the principles of Christianity, they would certainly become examples of every moral and Christian virtue." Testimony of the same kind was given by an English traveller of the Society of Friends also. But "evil disposed persons stirred up strife; and an Indian Queen afterwards piteously appealed for protection from the depredations of the white men,--her people not having learned to fence in and secure their lands and possessions as the Colonists did. So, as we were told, the aborigines began to fall away before the onward march of a stronger people.

In 1665, Captain Burgess was sent to suppress disorders; and was given command of all the forces of the Province against "Diverse Foreign Indians." His commission signed by Charles Calvert, expresses especial confidence in his fidelity, courage and experience. It also instructs him "to associate with friendly Indians," and ["]to avoid occasion of quarrel." He was appointed one of the Judges of the Court, with power "to punish all offenders of all manner of feloneys, witchcraft, Enchantments, Sorceries, magic arts,"--and extortions whatsoever.

The August Court met at London town, but of London town, founded by Colonel Burgess, only

[108]

one building now remains. In connection with the evidence of the intelligence[,] culture and refinement of the early residents of our state, we were told of the South River Club, probably the oldest association of its kind on the Continent. And that on the 15th of July, 1746, the gentlemen belonging to the ancient South River club, appointed a grand entertainment to express their loyalty to his Majesty on the success of the Duke of Cumberland over the Pretender, Charles Edward,--to be held at the Club house the following Thursday. It is said that this Club still exists, but Miss Davis told us she had been informed that only three members are left belonging to it, and that the old Club-house has passed into the hands of the Grange.

In 1682, Colonel Burgess's signature was appended to Lord Baltimore's declaration justifying himself from having shown partiality to the Church of Rome in the government of the Colony, to the disadvantage of the Protestants and to the ill advantage of the whole Province, by preventing other resorting thither. Colonel Burgess and other gentlemen avowing themselves to the Protestants and loyal subjects of the King of England, and in duty bound to unfold the naked truth, declare his Lordship's favors to be impartially administered, Protestants being the greater number in his Council.

Colonel Burgess was cut off in the midst of his usefulness but, said Miss Davis, we can read between the lines of his epitaph, his high sense of honor, his worthiness of the largest trusts, his laboring to lay the

[109]

foundation of the Commonwealth, strong and deep, "preparing the soul that we might reap the harvest." She paid a tribute to the wives of our first Colonists, who left their native lands to risk a long and perilous voyage, to be content with a home on the edge of a forest full of wild beasts and wild Indians, with perhaps scanty stores and not often replenished supplies. We were told that Father White records the upsetting of a boat in which the maids were washing linen; and the dire calamnity this proved to be. Miss Davis said our fathers chose well when they sailed up the Chesapeake, and took shelter in her harbors. That Virginia has been called the parent colony, but Maryland was no unworthy follower. That they early proved asylums to each other, and have stood side by side in trying hours and on well fought fields; sisters clasping hands, across the picturesque Potomac, and sending greeting from shore to shore of our beautiful inland sea.

The next article given us was by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller, and was on some of the "Curiosities of Maryland and Other States." Mrs. Miller showed us an old official document with the date of April 5th, 1684, being a grant of land from Lord Baltimore to Charles Merryman, still preserved in the well known Merryman family. It was old and faded, and difficult to read, but Mrs. Miller translated it for us. The tract described was on the Patapsco River, and on the West side of Jones's Falls. Another grant given and preserved by the family has among its signatures the names of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, both afterwards Presidents of the United States. Mrs. Miller also spoke of the very earliest accounts of

[110]

Maryland of the ships that before the coming of the Colonists, traded along our shore for skins and fish. She went on to speak of the earliest currency of our country,--Indian wampum, and musket balls. She gave some curious information regarding these representations of money, and told of the English, Dutch and Spanish coins that succeeded them. She gave an account of the Massachusetts Pine-Tree Shillings of 1652, the first Colonial coin, and of the next one, the Oak-tree Shilling; and showed us well preserved specimens of both of them. We were told of the anger of King Charles the Second, with the presumption of the Colonists in attempting to coin money; and of the wise answer that turned away his wrath. He is said to have asked a visiting Colonist what tree was represented on the shilling shown to him? "Of course your Majesty, said his American subject, that is the Royal Oak, that saved your Majesty's life." The King said the Colonists after all were "honest dogs."

What particularly interested us were the Maryland silver coins next shown to us, the sixpence and the groat, which Lord Baltimore with difficulty succeeded in having coined in England for circulation in his Province. We were also shown the Washington coin of 1791, to which Washington himself objected, thinking the head of a President on a piece of money, likely to suggest the effigy of a King. Mrs. Miller spoke of the suggestion made years ago that at least one of the coins of the United States should commemorate Christopher Columbus. This she said had been

[111]

partly carried out in the souvenir half dollars of the quadricentennial year 1893.

The next article given us was by Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, and was on "An Old Maryland Town." It was an account of Ellicott's Mills,--now called Ellicott City,-- and its environment; of which Mrs. Whitelock had also brought us beautiful photographic views. She thought those of us who had seen this place with its river, and the green hills and vales of pleasant Maryland, would never forget it. She spoke of the brothers Ellicott, and of their influence on that and other parts of the country. They were Friends or Quakers, who in 1772, came from Pennsylvania, bought land in the Patapsco, and built a town on it. In those days ships came up to wharfs there, and he worthy Ellicotts traded, built mills, and prospered. Mrs. Whitelock described the old life of the place, and remarked that its Quaker origin did not entirely prevent the sale of liquors, and of silks and satins within its borders.

Mrs. [Lily Tyson] Manly, a descendant of the Ellicotts herself, said that Friends were not always averse to silks and satins. Also that one Ellicott gave orders for the making of bayonets for General Green's army to be used at the battle of Cowpens,--which order cost him his place in the meeting. She told of another of the family who was called a crank on account of being before his time in appreciation of the power of steam. But being so advanced cost him one of his arms, by reason of his experiments with the then little known power.

[112]

It seems appropriate that the first railroad in the country, perhaps the first in the world, was built between Baltimore and Ellicott's Mills. Mrs. Manly also described a musical clock, made by one of the Ellicotts, which played twenty four times, one given to each hour;--which is now in one of the finest houses in New York, in a room especially set apart for it. Mrs. Manly also spoke of the visit of George Fox[^Fox] to Maryland, and of his recording that one of his meetings was attended by many Protestants and some Catholics, which was probably the occasion mentioned in Miss Davis's paper, when Lord and Lady Baltimore came to a Quaker meeting with William Penn.

[^Fox]: George Fox (1624-1691) was a founder of the Religious Society of Friends (i.e., the Quakers).

Mrs. Manly went on to speak of the old Colonial Clubs,--of the South River Club of 1716.--of the old Fishing Club of 1732,--and of the Fox Hunting Club of 1766. Of the Philadelphia Fishing Club, said to be the oldest of its kind in the world, she gave many interesting particulars, of former and present days, with pictures of the elegant Club house. One of the rules of this Club required the gentlemen to do their own cooking, and it is related that General Lafayette on being elected a member, insisted on complying with this regulation, and cooked his own beefsteak for dinner. We were given a lively song which these gentlemen fishers are accustomed to sing together.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock then spoke of our next meeting which is to be under the direction of the

[115][^rip]

[^rip]: The sheet with pages numbered 113 and 114 was torn out of the notebook.

Educational Committee. The President then requested the members present to remain for five minutes longer. She spoke of the new names to be sent to the Board of Management for election to Membership in the Club, and said the Constitution had been so lately adopted, that it would be impossible to give a whole month's notice of these names. She proposed that on this occasion, the month's notice of the new Constitution should not be required. The proportion was agreed to by all present. The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)