---
title: 1894-03-06 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-06-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## The 103rd Meeting. March 6, 1894

The 103rd meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, March 6th, 1894, at the Corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. Francis [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, the Chairman of the Committee on Current Criticism. The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the Salon of February 27th. The President spoke of the serious illness of Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter, Chairman of the Committee on Ancient Medieaval Poetry. She also announced that at the Salon of this month on March 27th, Miss [Ellen] Duvall will give us her paper on

[77]

Iago and discussion is requested to follow its reading. The Recording Secretary then read to the Club a very courteous note from Rev. J. Havens Richards, President of Georgetown College. It was in answer to the letter of our Corresponding Secretary thanking him for the loan of the beautiful vestments which added so immensely to the interest of our meeting of February 6th.

The first article on our programme was given by Mrs. [Anna Dolores Tiernan] Tait, and was called “Two Fools in Fiction.” Mrs. Tait criticized the novels God’s Fool by Maarten Maartens [1892], and “Dodo” by E. F. Benson [1893], which latter she called the “Fool of the World, the Flesh and the Devil.[”] Both the stories she said were somewhat pessimistic. The first treats of its hero in a Dutch commercial city, deaf and blind from an injury to his brain given him by a step-brother, very early in his life,--and worse than orphaned. The story shows the development of a soul--of love--and of self sacrifice. Of the novel “Dodo,” though it comes from Lambeth Palace, the home of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Mrs. Tait said it is not a sermon in disguise, not even a story with a moral; but the story of spoiled girl who seems to know what she wants and always gets it, who finds herself more interesting to herself than anyone else is, and who perhaps cannot help being what she is. We were told that the characters are drawn after artistic models, like the pictures of [George] Du Maurier, and by a gentleman, who

[78]

is above the vulgarity of prudence. The story was sketched for us gracefully and attractively, until “conscienceless and serene,” her Serene Highness passes out of vision.

Mrs. Dammann next gave us the review of two new books she had lately enjoyed reading. The first was “A Gentleman of France,” being the Memoir of Gaston de Bonne, by S. [Stanley] J. Weyman. This book, she said, does not give problems and fail to answer them, it is refreshing and gratifying. The second book was “The Ships that Pass in the Night,” by Beatrice Harraden. No one, it is said, could read this book without being roused to better thoughts and more loving life in the world where we go to and fro, and meet beautiful unselfish deeds and lives. Though there might be a more distinct recognition of the one Father of us all, there is sympathy and truth in the book that will do us good.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Oliver O’D. [Priscilla Paca] Hoblitzell, and was read by Mrs. Dammann. It was called “The Child of Today, the Man of Tomorrow.” It spoke of the love for little children--for all children,--which we know is, or ought to be in the heart of every true woman. Mrs. Hoblitzell went on to speak of the outcome of this love and the expression of it that she believes herself to have found in the writings of Mrs. Kate Douglass Wiggin. She thought the children of to day need just such books as Mrs.

[79]

Wiggin can give them. They are natural and helpful, and she has what has been called the seventh sense, the sense of the ridiculous. She may resemble Louisa Alcott, but is not an imitation of her. Mrs. Wiggins is a widow, but not an old woman,--born and brought up in California. It is in Southern California that she places the scene of her story “Polly Oliver’s Problem” [1893]. Polly’s efforts to save from the jaws of Fate her mother, who has broken down under taking boarders for a living, were described as well as her successful economies,--till the mother’s life fades away. But we were told, when the sun of her hope sets, she lights a candle called patience, and guides her footsteps by its light. Polly is employed by a benevolent lady at a small salary to tell stories to the children in an orphan asylum. She adopted the profession of a paid story-teller to the children of those of those who can pay well for the service; but not forgetting the orphans, whose company she loves. Mrs. Hoblitzel[‘s] article went on to speak of the improved and healthy literary tone of the children’s books at the present day.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. R. K. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley, and was called “A Plea for Small Poets.” Mrs. Cautley suggested that fifty minor English poets was none too many. That all singers can not be nightingales. And the nightingale sings only one month in the year, must all the other birds keep silence, all the year round because they are not nightingales? Must we walk through the woods with our ears stopped with cotton wool,

[80]

and see spring flowers, but not hear the spring songs? She liked them all, even those of the frogs, who might be called nature’s negro minstrels, and rather low perhaps, but capable of giving pleasure to some of us. And we can let the little birds sing. The first of the minor poets she reviewed was William Watson, who, as she reminded us, is believed to have failed to receive the appointment of Poet Laureate, as Tennyson’s successor, through the misfortune of a temporary loss of reason. But he is still a young man, and may yet give us many more true poems like those quotes in the essay.

The next minor poet mentioned by Mrs. Cautley was as she said a woman, and the peer of the rest; Miss Augusta Webster.[^Webster] She shows the influence of the Brownings, having been well acquainted with both of them. But she is a singing bird herself also, and we were glad to have brought before us the good and true music of one of our own sex. The next minor poet of Mrs. Cautley’s list was Rudyard Kipling, perhaps more popular than any other young poet in England. He has, she said, been called a brute and a savage, but he has written about strange countries and people; and one can not paint a ruler to us like a Fra Angelico angel. He has painted Hindoo life, and also the Homesickness of Europeans in India, better than anyone else has done. We were given one of Kipling’s poems, a patriotic tribute to Lady Dufferin from the Hindoo women whom she had helped and comforted during her stay in their country. The last minor poet on Mrs. Cautley’s list was Robert Bridger, a quiet

[^Webster]: Augusta Webster (1837-1894) was a British poet and activist who specialized in the dramatic monologue form. Compared to fellow poet Elizabeth Browning, Webster also was active in the suffrage movement, working for the National Committe for Women's Suffrage in London.

[81]

Oxford student, rather liked by the critics, as yet not much known in America, who has written some lovely lines. Mrs. Cautley went on to speak of the ambitious efforts of some young contemporary writers. Referring to the old fable that the nightingale sings with its breast against a storm, she spoke of those who try to prick themselves into nightingales, but such self-inflicted torture does no good. Mrs. Cautley closed the review with a poem written by one entirely unknown in America, a poet and artist who asks “When all Nature Sings, Why should I be dumb?”[^cautley]

[^cautley]: A poem ostensibly by Cautley herself.

The President announced the request of the board of management that those members of the Club who wish to propose the names of new members, will send them to the Board, on or before the first of April.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Thomas J. Morris, and was on John Oliver Hobb[e]s and Maarten Maartens. She said she would not bring us an essay but only opinions. She spoke of some of the books of John Oliver Hobb[e]s,--the nom de plume, of an American woman living in London.[^Hobbes] One was she said a story of marital infelicity, and not pleasant to dwell upon. Another was called “A Study in Temptation,” and on this one, the author seems to have made her reputation. It is bright but unsatisfactory, with glittering sentences and repugnant situations. She spoke of another called “A Bundle of Life,” and gave us from these books, some very striking and extraordinary quotations. But she

[^Hobbes]: Pearl Mary Teresa Richards (1867-1906) was born in Boston but became a British socialite and bohemian author. Morris refers to Hobbes's first novel, _Some Emotions and a Moral_ (1891), which caused a sensation when it was published for its treatment of infidelity. _A Study in Temptations_ was published in 1893, followed the next year by _A Bundle of Life_.

[82]

concluded that these books are not in sympathy with Article I. V. Section 2nd of our beloved and lately imperiled Constitution, on the encouragement of right and serious views of life and literature. Mrs. Morris also reviewed “The Greater Glory” by Maarten Maartens [1893]. She told us of the only son of a typical Dutch father and mother, committed to a tutor who was told to make him a gentleman, not a scholar. Of the principle that finds expression in the old motto “Nobless Oblige,” and the different conceptions of the principle by different souls. She gave us some wonderful descriptions and character scenes; and closed with an eloquent interpretation of the title of the book “The Greater Glory.”

Miss Davis offered for us the inspection of the Club, an old ticket for our early Presidential election. Mrs. Morris spoke of the literary entertainment to be given by Mr. Lincoln on the sixteenth of March, and of its great Attractions. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham spoke of the work of our Committee on Modern Philanthropy.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)