---
title: 1894-01-25 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-25-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[59]

## Board of Management. January 25th, 1894.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Friday, January 25th, 1894 at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. There were five members present:--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--Recording Secretary [Lydia Crane],--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann and Miss [Grace] Balch.

Letters were received from Mrs.

[60]

[Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord and Miss [Louisa Courtauld Osburne] Haughton regretting their inability to be present.

The minutes of the Board meeting of January 22nd were read.

The subject of the more general distribution of Topic Papers was spoken of; also of the reading at each meeting of the programme for the next one, so far as possible.

The President explained the difficulties under which she had labored;--especially of late, when resignations had occurred among Chairmen of Committees and active members.

A suggestion was made of a sort of censorship of papers, before the public meetings, in the interest of raising the standard of our original work. This had to some extent, been done, by the Chairman of Committees;--but may, possibly, receive more attention in future, than it has hither done.

The business for which we had been called together was announced in a letter from Miss Haughton, our Second Vice President, and related to the supplying of a piano for the musical evening of next Tuesday; and possibly for future musical evenings. She told of a conversa-

[61]

tion she had with an agent of Knabe's piano firm,[^Knabe] in which a piano was offered to us for six dollars a month, to rent,--and, for less than five hundred to buy it. Of course, three dollars would be charged for moving it. After some conversation it was decided that, as our income had lately decreased, it would be well--now--to rent, and not to buy a piano.

[^Knabe]: The Wm. Knabe piano company was founded by German-American immigrant Valentin Wilhelm Ludwig Knabe in the mid-1850s, in Baltimore. Knabe pianos were favored by composers including Camille Saint-Saens and Joseph Lamb; Elvis Presley played a white 1912 Knabe piano. The site of the factory at Eutaw and West Streets is now occupied by M&T Bank Stadium, home of the Baltimore Ravens football team.

Miss Balch asked if the members of a society like the Colonial Dames could be invited to our meetings as individuals, after having been entertained as an association? Without deciding this question, the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)