---
title: 1894-05-29 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-05-29-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[150]

## 113th Meeting. May 29th, 1894.

The 113th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, May 29th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, Chairman of the Committee on Modern Philanthropy. THe President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of May 22nd. Our attention was called to the copy of the tally-sheet of our late election, which had been put upon the blackboard upon the platform, for the information of our members. THe President also reminded us of

[151]

the ruling of the new Constitution, that the new Officers and Directors of the Club should begin their terms of office on the first Tuesday in June. But this year, the newly elected Corresponding Secretary had been requested, and had consented to begin her duties immediately after election.

Reference was made to a poem sent to Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, and to a message regarding it, received from her. Three new songs by Mr. Edwin Turnbull were presented to the Club. They were called “To a Portrait,”--”The Reaper,”--and “Stairs of the Summer Night.” Another gift to the Club was a pamphlet called “Smallwood’s Immortals,” by Ella Lorraine Dorsey; a tribute to the Maryland heroes who fought with General Smallwood in the war of the American Revolution. A vote of thanks was passed by the Club for these gifts.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham introduced the subject of the meeting, and spoke of the difficulties she had encountered last winter, after having at the request of the President, undertaken the Chairmanship of the Committee on Philanthropy, which had been assigned by M. [Margaret] Lake. She then spoke of the Literature of Philanthropy, and of Humanity. She mentioned Edward Everett Hale’s story “In His Name,” and other works of the same kind. She reminded us of the book called “Black Beauty,” which in the history of a horse can make us recognize the kinship of all God’s creatures.

The next article on our programme was by Miss Piggott [Margaret Moore Piggot], and was on “The Guild of the Holy Cross.”

[152]

The Society of this name was described,--its origin, and its methods. Also the results attained by its work, that of comforting, helping and cheering invalids and disabled people, especially women, and also inspiring and inducing them to work for the help and happiness of others, sick or ill--equipped for the battle of life. Of course a large portion of the members of the society never see each other, but they write letters, and keep in touch with each other in many ways. Miss Piggott related her own experiences and those of other members of the Guild of the Holy Cross, in different parts of our country,--the deeds of week day holiness done to bless each other’s lives.

The next article on our programme was by Miss Reiba Thelin, and was on the “Country Home for Children.” Miss Thelin spoke of the beginning of this work in a fair or sale held six years ago, by eight young ladies; and described the progress and success of the work since that time. She gave us an interesting and amusing anecdote of her interviews with parents and children in Hamburg street and Gould street, and other remote regions of our city of Baltimore. Also of her intercourse with children en route to and in the Country Home, and a pleasant sketch of the Home itself, as well as its inmates. Miss Thelin called our attention to the little seeds sown and the little drops that fell upon them, and to the harvest that no man can measure in time and eternity.

Our next article was to be given by Mrs. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley, but owing to her illness, it was omitted, and

[153]

Miss [Jane] Zacharias was requested to tell us something about the “News Boys Home” in which she is much interested. Miss Zacharias said it was sometimes easier to speak in meeting than to read, and that she would tell us some of her experiences. She thought there were some misapprehensions among us regarding the news boys and the boot-blacks. The true news boys are very clannish and have their own aristocratic exclusiveness. They refuse to associate with--from their point of view--undesirable company, they object to night schools, and one must find the true touch of nature, to draw them from variety theatres and curb-stone gambling. She said she the first requisite to make a meeting room attractive for them, was to have a sufficiency of gas jets;-- they have but little light in their own poor homes. Then a good fire is needed, and the means of drying jackets and shoes after a rain. When they are made to feel at home, a few books, some music and games are good for them; but they want the fairy land side of life brought to them as much as possible. They are frank critics, and never pretend to like anything. It is not always easy to entertain by exhibitions youngsters, who like to see fights and live horses on the stage. She spoke of their manner of receiving a series of Stereopticon Views, as calculated to upset some of our theories. They were shown fine English pictures, but evinced only very little interest in them, and at last called for “the green above the red.” Irish pictures did please them, and after

[154]

Dublin they called for Cork. After a view of Paris, a boy rose and said “No Frenchmen present Miss.” One great thing is to meet them regularly, and not to be weary in well doing for them. It matters not if the person who strives to help them is neither young nor beautiful, if the person’s interest and efforts do not fail them. Miss Zacharias told of the friendship she had formed with these boys; told of their wit and pathos, and of their liking for seeing and hearing pleasant things. She spoke of the personal attention needed to give the refining influence which are just what they do not get at home. She told a little of the results of her work,--meeting at a railway station, a young man who had a news stand, which he said gave him forty dollars a month, and who introduced himself to her as one of her boys. He told her she could not know how much good her work had done to himself and his companions. Certainly although we all are told that “Blest are they Who wait in Heaven their Harvest Day,” the repercussion of intelligent gratitude can bless us here and now.

The next article of our programme was by Miss Wilder of the Woman’s College, and was on “Tramps.” Miss Wilder discussed the Tramp problem philosophically; also the solutions that have been offered for it. She spoke of the unequal distribution of wealth in our country, of the effects of the Civil War, of alcoholism and of the various hydra heads that

[155]

seem to belong to the great social enigma of our day. But her chief subject of thought was the idler, not necessarily a criminal in law, but determined to live without work. Miss Wilder had studied her subject, and her paper contained many items of information and suggestions regarding these among us who have been called “nomads in the midst of civilization,” and sometimes “savages without resources.”

The next article of our programme was by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, and was announced as “Self Denial Week.” The chief part of Mrs. Graham’s paper was devoted to a description of an experience of her own at a Summer Resort on the Jersey Coast. She met there a young man, a gentleman from Sweden, young, rich, and handsome and possessing a marvelous voice, who had, it seemed, from conviction, joined the Salvation Army, and was working with all his heart and soul and voice, as he said, for the souls of his fellow men. She gave us his history as told by himself, with that sort of joyful enthusiasm and singleness of purpose, which strong religious faith can and does give, under varying denominations and environments. Mrs. Graham then explained to us that the Salvation Army had instituted for themselves an annual season of self denial, and special good works, answering in some degree to what among other Christian bodies is called lent. She then spoke of the good work now proposed among us of founding

[156]

a Home for Epileptics in Maryland, and suggested that this greatly needed benefit might ask for self denial and effort from the women of our state.

The hour being now late, the meeting informally adjourned.
<hr>]

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)