---
title: 1894-06-09 Special Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-06-09-special.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[161]

## Special Business Meeting. June 9th, 1894.

A special business meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Saturday morning, June 9th, 1894, at the house of Miss Emma [Fenwick] Brent, 708 St. Paul Street. After informal conversation, Miss Brent, the retiring President of the Club, was requested to act as Chairman of this meeting. At the request of the Recording Secretary the members present signed the new Constitution of the Club.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, First Vice President, called for a meeting of the Board of Management. The Board withdrew, and having considered the small amount of business brought before it, adjourned;--and its members returned to join the general meeting. The Chairman,

[162]

Miss Brent, announced the dates of the meetings for the coming year; and requested the Chairman of the different Committees to make known the meetings most convenient for each one of them to take in charge. The members of the Club were each and all invited to join the Committees that suited them, and most of those present did so.

Suggestions were made for the Programme of the first meeting of the new year, in the coming October. A vote of thanks was given to the Librarian Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller, for her work in copying the new Constitution for us. The subject of the proposed Memorial Chapel for distinguished Marylanders was also brought forward. An offer was announced as made by Mrs. Milton Whitney to give the white stone to be used in building this Chapel. A vote of thanks was returned for this generous offer.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>
[END OF SEASON]
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)