---
title: 1894-03-20 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-20-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 105th Meeting. March 20th, 1894.

The 105th regular meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, March 20th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of March 13th. The 105th meeting was under the direction of Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, Chairman of the COmmittee on Archaeology. The President read a short paper introducing the topic of the meeting, “The Archaeology of India.” It spoke of the early life and the strange creed of the Indian Peninsula, of the original faith which seems to have been belief in the one true God, afterwards modified into a belief in three Gods, showing relation to the wide-spread idea of a Divine Trinity. Of the East Indian early life and civilization the record remains to us in rock-hewn temples and carved images, in images, in symbols, and inscriptions that appeal to us with wonderful force and meaning, full of the history of man’s ancient desires and aspirations--his hope and trust. We were told

[87]

of the rise of Buddhism in India, of the reaction from Brahminism, and of the Buddhist symbols or emblems for the divine flame, for law and for the priesthood. The principal article in the meeting was given by Mrs. Wrenshall, and was on The Archaeology of India. It was illustrated by pictures of the wonderful temple, rock carvings, images, and curious sacred symbols of India, provided for us by Mrs. Wrenshall, and thrown upon the screen by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton[^lantern] Mrs. Wrenshall spoke of the mystery and the elusive secrets of the long past ages in the peninsular of India, a land shut in by mountains and seas. The monuments of Minervah and of Egypt, the Hebrew Scriptures give us no certain knowledge of land or people. Not before the fourth Century before Christ, is any reliable mention of the land of rich treasure, gorgeous beauty and intellectual subtlety. Then the meteor brightness of Alexander the Great, illumines the darkness between the East and the West. The confused annals of India contrast with the orderly records of China and Egypt, in their character writing--while India possessed the greater advantage of an alphabet.

[^lantern] Wrenshall's paper is accompanied by "lantern slides"--the precursor to the slide show or the filmstrip-- a popular form of entertainment in the nineteenth century. Wrenshall presented other lantern slide lectures to the public, many accompanied by photographs taken by her daughter Katharine Wrenshall Markland (a later member of the Club). The presentation given here was likely an early example of the kinds of presentations she took on tour later in her life.

Three distinct races occupied the land. The barbarous aborigines whom their conquerors called Dasyus or slaves, but who played an important part in their country’s history; the Dravidians--a Iranian people, who had come perhaps from Babylonia, and the conquering Aryans; a literary people upon whose Vedic literature we must depend for knowledge until the rise of Buddhism. With Gautama in the sixth century before Christ,

[88]

the architectural story of India begins, and rock temples and monasteries with their sculptures, paintings and inscriptions, have thrown much light on an almost lost record. The growth and development of Buddhism during a thousand years are vividly illustrated in profuse and wonderful pictures in stone. Brahmin and Jainist sects too, emulated this example in excavating rock and cave temples, taking up the story where else the thread had been lost. And through them we know Southern India in the centuries between the fall of Buddhism and the Moslim Conquest. Mrs. Wrenshall went back to the Aryan invasion placed by scholars about 3100 before Christ, and said that the Aryans at first possessed an elevated and joyous faith--the worship of all that is beneficent and beautiful in Nature. Falling from its high estate this religion became debasing and degenerate bondage, subjecting the people to paralyzing restrictions.

In the third century before Christ, the great reform movement began by Gautama, 200 years before it was accepted by King Asoka, and the religion of peace was made the state religion. The despised casteless aborigines and low caste Brahmins hailed the relief from the iron-bound fetters of caste. Buddhism, to which, we were reminded, we owe a great historical debt, maintained its power for over a thousand years. Missionaries were sent including the son and daughter of King Asoka to teach forbearance, charity morality and self abnegation. The King himself is said at last to have resigned

[89]

his throne to lead an ascetic life. Now arose countless monasteries, monumental shrines, memorials of the visits of Gautama, gradually becoming asylums for his followers, and great monolithic pillars with inscriptions upon them commending the Buddhist faith; but no force was used in spreading Buddhism. Pilgrims from other lands came to the spot where Gautama had lived and taught. The journals of two Chinese pilgrims, who, in the fifth and seventh centuries visited the sacred places of India, are still preserved.

We were told of a tree in Ceylon, supposed to have grown from a piece of Gautama’s sacred Bo tree, and perhaps the oldest object of worship in the world. Mrs. Wrenshall went on to tell us of the Archaeological remains of ancient India, from the rude cavern where Gautama rested from his wanderings--the cradle of the mighty wave of thought that was to reign supreme over vast India, and control many millions of the mighty halls of Egypt. The article was beautifully read and intensely interesting and finely illustrated by the pictures which accompanied it.

At the close, Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham proposed a vote of thanks to Mrs. Wrenshall and to Miss Haughton, which was passed by acclamation.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)