---
title: 1894-05-01 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-05-01-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[74]

## Board of Management. May 1st, 1894.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore held a meeting on Tuesday, May 1st, 1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. In all nine members attended this meeting; the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--two Vice Presidents [Mrs. W. Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson and Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton],--Recording Secretary [Lydia Crane],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--Miss [Grace] Balch,--and Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall. Miss Grace came late.

The President called the meeting to order, and after some suggestions with regard to the conduct of business,--reminded us that the first business in order was the presentation of the names of candidates for membership in our Club, this being the occasion of voting upon them.

Twenty new names were read to the Board; but one of them was--solely on account of irregularity in the presentation--not acted upon.

1 The first name proposed was that of Mrs. Alfred M. [Ariana Trail] Belt, 1031 Cathedral Street, proposed by Mrs. [Martha Lee] Jenkins and seconded by Miss [Mary E.] Evans. She was elected, receiving eight votes,--those of all present at that time of voting.

2 The second name was that of Miss Camak, 15 Preston Street; proposed by Mrs. Goddard, seconded by Mrs. Tait

[75]

and Miss Grace. She was elected by the same unanimous vote.

3 The third name was that of Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Davis, the Langham; proposed by Miss Cloud, seconded by Mrs. Manly. Elected by the same vote as before.

4 The fourth name was that of Mrs. George W. S. Hall. St. Denis Post Office 1812 North Charles Street; proposed by Miss Reese, and seconded by Mrs. Jenkins and Mrs. Goddard. Mrs. Hall was elected by the votes of all present.

5 The fifth name was that of Miss Effie Johnson, 33 West North Avenue; proposed by Mrs. Goddard, seconded by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller and Mrs. Tait. Elected by the same eight votes.

6 The sixth name was that of Miss Margaret A. Klein, Eutaw Street; proposed by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, seconded by Mrs. Tait. Elected by the same vote as before.

7 The seventh name was that of Mrs. W. P. Morgan, 313 West Monument Street; proposed by Mrs. T. J. Morris, seconded by Miss [Eveline Rieman] Early. Mrs. Morgan also received all of the eight votes cast.

8 The eighth name was that of Miss Katherine Noble, No 8 West North Avenue; proposed by Miss Griffith, seconded by Mrs. Jenkins. Elected by the same vote as before.

9 The ninth name was that of Mrs. Clapham Pennington; proposed by

[76]

Mrs. Tait, seconded by Miss Brent. Elected by the same vote as before.

10 The tenth name was that of Mrs. William M. Pegram; proposed by Mrs. Wrenshall, and seconded by Mrs. Jenkins. Mrs. Pegram was also unanimously elected. (Declined)

11 The eleventh name was that of Mrs. Benjamin Price; proposed by Mrs. Jenkins, and seconded by Mrs. Wrenshall. Mrs. Price was elected by the votes of all present,--nine in number at that time.

12 The twelfth name was that of Miss Katherine Spear, 309 Lanvale Street; proposed by Miss Zacharias, seconded by Mrs. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley. Miss Spear was elected by all the votes given.

13 The thirteenth name was that of Mrs. P. R. [Pearl D.] Uhler, proposed by Mrs. Manly, and seconded by Mrs. Wrenshall and Miss Brent. Mrs. Uhler was unanimously elected.

14 The fourteenth name was that of Mrs. Yates Stirling, Lanvale Street; proposed by Mrs. Frederick [Florence McIntyre] Tyson, seconded by Miss Brent. She was also unanimously elected.

15 The fifteenth name was that of Miss Annie Weston Whitney; proposed by Miss Zacharias, seconded by Miss Cloud. She was elected by the same vote.

[77]

The sixteenth name was that of Mrs. Thomas [Harriet Louise Westcott] Hill, proposed by Mrs. Easter, seconded by Mrs. Miller. She was also unanimously elected.

The seventeenth name was that of Mrs. Thomas Rhinehart; proposed by Mrs. Wiley, seconded by Mrs. Miller. Also unanimously elected.

The eighteenth name was that of Mrs. George K. [Margaret Ann Worden] McGaw, proposed by Mrs. Wiley, and seconded by Miss Malloy. Elected by the same vote as before.

The nineteenth name was that of Miss Martha Ford, proposed by Mrs. Manly, and seconded by Miss Malloy. She was also unanimously elected.

The President then spoke of the approaching election for officers of the Club, and of the necessity for a system of rules in this election. We were reminded of the "Election Rules offered for Trial["] by the Minority of the special Committee on Amendments to the Constitution last Fall. Mrs. Johnson moved that a trial should be made of these rules at the approaching election. Miss Balch seconded the motion, and it was carried without opposition. We were reminded that the printed sheets filled up with the nominating lists of the members ought to be in

[78]

the hands of the proper Committee before the 14th of May if possible.

The election rule requiring that a Committee of five members of the Club shall be appointed by the President to receive and classify the nominating sheets of the members was now considered; and the President appointed as this Committee: Mrs. Wylie--Mrs. Carter,--Mrs. Wrenshall,--Miss Haughton,--and Miss Cloud, or--if Miss Cloud should decline to serve--the fifth member might be Mrs. Percy [Elizabeth McCormick] Reese.

The question arose whether this Committee should be taken from the ranks of the Club, exclusive of the Board of Management--or not? Mrs. Johnson suggested that it would not make much difference either way; but said she thought it would be the wiser plan not to include any member of the Board of Management in this Committee. Mrs. Wrenshall said the Board ought to be represented in it.

Miss Haughton said she would decline to serve on this Committee.

Mrs. Johnson moved that this Committee do not include members of the Board of Management, Miss

[79]

Grace seconded the motion;--but it was defeated.--The meeting adjourned.

--Some of the members appointed to serve on this Committee on Election declining to serve, it became finally: Mrs. Wylie,--Mrs. Carter,--Mrs. Wrenshall,--Mrs. Whitelock,--and Mrs. Goddard.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)