---
title: 1894-06-09 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-06-09-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[81]

## Board of Management. New Board: June 9th, 1894.

The Board of Directors of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Saturday, June 9th, 1894, at the house of Miss Emma [Fenwick] Brent. Eight members were present;--the First Vice President [Mrs. W. Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson],--two Secretaries [Lydia Crane and Lily Tyson Manly],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early,--Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall,--and Miss [Louise] Malloy.

The First vice President, Mrs. Bullock,[^bullock] called the meeting to order, and announced that the business before us was the appointment of a House Committee, to superintend the necessary arrangements regarding our rooms and furniture for the summer season.

[^bullock]: As indicated in the previous paragraph, Bullock was in fact the Treasurer of the Club at this time, not the First Vice President.

[82]

Miss Haughton was nominated as Chairman of this Committee, and elected unanimously, Miss [Grace] Balch was nominated and elected with the same unanimity. Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord was also unanimously elected.

There being no further pressing business before the Board of Directors, the meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)