---
title: 1894-01-02 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-02-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[31]

## 96th Meeting. January 2nd, 1894

The 96th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 2nd, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets.

The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order. The first article of the programme was by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller and on: “The Influence of George William Curtis upon his Times.” After introducing her subject and her hero, Mrs. Miller spoke of Curtis as an orator, especially of his speeches on Civil Service Reform, on Education, on Fair Play for

[32]

Women, on Modern Infidelity, and on other subjects. She spoke of his political career--of his leaving his party, where he believed his party to have left the high principles he gave it credit for when he joined it. She spoke of his literary career, of his early works, so familiar and pleasing to some of us long ago. Then of the beauty and cleanness of his style; also of his literary friendships and enthusiasms. Then of his editorial for “Harper’s Weekly.” Then of Curtis as our personal friend, then, the recipient of the “Easy Chair” of “Harper’s Magazine.” A Maryland author, the brightest woman I ever knew intimately said she always read the “Easy Chair” in “Harper’s” whether she had time for the rest of the Magazine or not. There are no doubt some among us, who will thank Mrs. Miller for reminding us of many of those essays that seem still shining with some of the best lights of the past. Miss Brent and Miss [Mary F.] Grace gave us some pleasant references and recollections relating to George W. Curtis also.

The next paper on our programme was by Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, Chairman on the Committee on Essayists, under whose direction this meeting was held. Her essay was on “Thomas Carlyle as a man and a Writer.” She spoke of Carlyle as having been likened to a Cathedral bell, Certainly he was full of stirring tones, and always ready to sound them forth. Mrs. Lord drew a parallel between Carlyle and [Ralph Waldo] Emerson, speaking of Emerson as

[33]

the only American who seems ever to be compared with Carlyle. She thought that though Carlyle is called a pessimist, and Emerson found all things good--in the works of the all-good Creator--there is more agreement, more unison of faith and feeling between the two philosophers, than the first impressions of their works may give us. She went on to speak with enthusiasm of the works of Carlyle, and gave us eloquent extracts from “Heros and Hero Worship,” “The French Revolution,” and other justly admired works of the great Master.

She said that great appreciation and great honor came to him--but too late. His own health and that of his wife had been worn out; his wife died too soon to fully enjoy their success, and he had lost the power to do so. In speaking of his married life, and to his friendship, and of his criticisms, Mrs. Lord sought to be just and kind in her estimates and in the comments. Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer gave us an account of some incidents at a dinner party in England, at which Carlyle took her mother down to dinner. He did not at all sympathize with that lady’s enthusiasms, he could not understand how anyone could enjoy travelling, and he thought the best solution of the Irish question, would be gained, by dipping the whole island under the sea for twenty four hours.

Mrs. Carlyle who was, Mrs. Latimer told us, extremely pretty and charming, took great pains to

[34]

explain to the ladies of the party, that her husband did not really mean what he said. By way of giving them something else to think about--Mrs. Carlyle told them the story of the poet [Robert] Browning’s courtship, of his poet-wife [Elizabeth Barrett Browning]--then very new and always very interesting.

Mrs. Latimer said that Mrs. Carlyle had made about the greatest mistake a woman can make: being a lady, she had married a peasant. Mrs. [Clara B. Newman] Turner said she would have been glad to hear Carlyle talk, glad to have had him to call upon her when no one else was doing the same; but she could not have lived in the house with him. Miss [Mary F.] Grace, Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, Miss Richards--a visitor--and others continued the entertaining conversation.

Mrs. Latimer was asked to tell us the Love Story of the Brownings, as related by Mrs. Carlyle. She did so with spirit and humor. Notice was given of the Reading by Mrs. Turner--before the Lend a Hand Club--of her admired article on Emily Dickinson.

The names of new members proposed, and voted upon by the Board of Management, were read to the Club. Notice was given of the reception of resignations from nine of our members;--followed by the announcement of a resolution of the Board of Management,--expressing regret and requesting these members to reconsider their resignations.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)