---
title: 1894-06-05 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-06-05-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[156]

## 34[th] Salon. June 5th, 1894.

The thirty fourth Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, June 5th 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of May 29th. The President made some explanations with regard to the circumstances preceding and attending the meeting of May 15th; on which occasion we were favored with an address by Mrs. Hensotin of Chicago, the President of the Federation of Woman’s CLubs of America and when we also entertained the officers of the Arundel Club, of the Colonial Dames, and of several other organizations, as our guests.

The Report of the Librarian of the Club, Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller, was then read. She reported 143 books and 83 pamphlets in our library; reminding us that most of the authors of these works belonged to Maryland, by birth or adoption. We have books on general and particular subjects, taking a wide range of topics, literary, scientific, educational and domestic. We

[157]

were reminded of the gifts of Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer, Mrs. [Clara B. Newman] Turner, Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] and others. It was announced that the Club had just received the very valuable gift from Mr. And Mrs. William Keyser of a copy of Boydell’s Shakespeare, a work now out of print. The originals of the pictures in this book now hang on the walls of Shakespear’s house at Stratford Upon Avon. Miss [Mary F.] Grace moved a vote of thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Keyser for this gift. The motion was seconded by Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, and passed unanimously.

Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord then presented to Miss Brent, the Retiring President, a beautiful badge,--a violet set in pearls,--showing the Club colors,--as a token of the grateful remembrance by her fellow members of the unselfish devotion and untiring efforts for their benefit during the past year. Miss Brent responded appropriately in accepting the unexpected gift, telling us that she could never thank the Club enough for the support and affection and confidence they had given her and each other; which had held us together, through unlooked for trials. Mrs. Lord then presented form the Club to the Recording Secretary, a beautiful silver pen holder. Miss [Lydia] Crane could only thank her fellow members for this mark of their kind reception of what seemed to herself unavoidably inadequate work.

The President there gave us her annual address. She spoke of her wish to bow before the Club as a dignified body,--dignified by faith and courage. She mentioned having lately read of the superb courage of

[158]

The Maryland soldiers at the battle of Gettysburg; and she thought te Maryland women as brave and as true to what they belief to be right, as the Maryland soldiers ever were. She spoke of those of the children of our State, who have made her “glorious by the pen and famous by the sword,” of the past and of those who are working now, for her glory and fame in the future. She reviewed our work in the year just past, and thought that without vanity we could count upon growth and progress. We had faith in each other and faith in ourselves, and could hopefully continue the work which our first President prophesied would be a great and growing power for good in our community. She spoke of our young members, to whom we must look for the future of our Club. She hoped we might some day have a book to record the work done by our members. She spoke of that love which is the fulfilling of the Law,--the true law of life. She would leave her office with thanks and regret, but with satisfaction in the firm basis on which she believed us to stand.

Miss Brent went on to speak of the Federation of Women’s Clubs of America, to which we now belong; and of the conservative influence it might be our part to contribute to it;--also of the great benefit one Club might be able to confer upon the others. She said that like our own State, we sought, not for size, but for excellence, and to be true to the spirit of our Maryland motto,--to exemplify brave deeds and gentle words. Miss Brent then spoke of the different

[159]

Committees of the Club, and of the work proposed to be done by them. She requested all of the members who could do so, to meet at her home on the following Saturday morning, to choose their places in these Committees, and to assist in organizing them. She spoke particularly of the new Committee on Memorial Decorations, of Which Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor is Chairman; of the Committee on Biography and Curios, under the charge of Miss [Fannie] Minor; of the two Committees, and on Ancient and on Modern Poetry, one under the care of Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, and the other under that of Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter; and of the Committee on Science, of which the Chairman was not yet appointed.

She explained that we do not propose to study Sanitation nor Physiology, but other departments of Science more within the scope of our general work. She also spoke of the work of preserving newspaper notices of special interest, which Miss [Grace] Balch had undertaken to do for the Club. She also reminded us of the approaching return of our former and re-elected President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

The lately elected members of the Club were requested to come forward to the front seats to receive their certificates of membership; and the Second Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton was requested to address them. Miss Haughton said that she feared there might be some little appearance of presumption in her coming to make an address of this kind. But she trusted every one would believe that she spoke now, not as an individual, but only as one of the

[160]

Two earliest founders of the Club, and as being a representation of the Club itself. She spoke of having been asked what was meant by that clause of our own Constitution, which asserts: “That the women of this association have banded themselves together in the hope of encouraging, by their influence, right and serious views of life and literature”? Would it not be possible for a woman to take wrong and comic views of literature, and still be eligible for membership in a literary Club? She quoted some appropriate opinions expressed by our first President on noble and womanly purposes in life and literature. She reminded us that for life we have ten definite and authoritative rules, but for literature, nothing of the kind.

She reviewed some of the popular fiction of the day, and then spoke of three boy’s books that tell of wild adventures and crimes. She spoke of those books which mean more to the writer than they do to the reader; and of those which mean one thing to one person and another thing to another person. We were reminded of those books which seem to us able to bear the best light of this world,--and light still more pure and searching. Miss Haughton said in closing, that we pledge ourselves to what our own best selves teach us are “right and serious views of life and literature.[“]

The new members receive their certificates of membership. Miss Brent requested Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, First Vice President, to take the chair, as acting President, until the return among us of Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull.

[161]

Mrs. Bullock on taking the chair, said that she had supposed the duties of a Vice President to be very light, and of no great responsibility; but present circumstances would seem to prevent her from having a position of quiet and solitude. She went on to speak with hope and confidence of the prospects of the Club in the coming year, and of the good work that each one can do for all in accomplishing our best ends together.

The last regular meeting of the season of 1893 and 1894 then adjourned. After adjournment sometime was devoted to light refreshments and conversation by members and visitors.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)