---
title: 1894-02-06 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-02-06-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[52]

## 100th Meeting. February 6th, 1894.

The 100th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, February 6th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. It had been before announced, this meeting had been devoted to Ecclesiastic Needlework. The members of the Decorative Art Society, had been invited to be present. The meeting was under the direction of the Second Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, and other members of the Club. By their efforts, and by the generous kindness of Cardinal Gibbons, Rev. Mr. Powell of Grace Episcopal Church, Rev. Dr. Guttmacher of Madison Avenue Hebrew Temple, Rev Mr. Smith of St. Michael and All Angels, the Clergymen of Loyola College and Georgetown College, the Sisters of All Saints, and other ladies, the room in which we are accustomed to meet, was decorated with treasures

[53]

of artistic beauty, and in still greater interest, with the ancient and modern symbols of the faith and devotion of Christians and Hebrews and even Buddhists.

The Club was called to order by the President, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the Meeting of January 30th. The Introductory article of our programme was by Miss [Louisa Courtauld Osburne] Haughton and was “Of the Beauty of Holiness.” She described vividly the symbolical significance of colors and forms and letters and delineations which have come from early Christian times down to our own days; each we may believe, with its own appropriate lesson, like that of the alabaster boy of the precious ointment that was poured upon the Master’s Feet or the wedding garments of which He has told us. We can appreciate all efforts to do homage to that “beauty of holiness” in which we are commanded and recommended to “worship the Lord.” Miss Haughton went on to speak of religious symbolism in general; and then of the efforts of humanity in different ages and countries to work for the glory of God; and it may be possible with different comprehensions, and difference of administrations, still striving for a day when there shall be one fold and one Shepherd.

The next article on the programme was by Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, and was on the “Symbolism of Sacred Vestments.” She began by speaking of the antiquity of embroidery, of the needlework dear to woman in all ages,--her solace and joy. Then of the peplum of Minerva, of the work of the women of Sidow, before the Trojan War, and of what Homer tells us

[54]

of the work of Andromache for Hector. Mrs. Dammann spoke of the woven work of the ninth century, and of the tapestries of the twelfth century, and then of the oldest Ecclesiastic embroideries of England, and of the continent of Europe. She quoted from the book of Exodus of the holy garments made for Aaron the Priest, “for glory and for beauty,” of their purple and gold and silver and of the embroidered coat of fine linen, and of the girdle of needlework that he wore. She told us of the significance attached to some of the ancient forms of vestments and adornments, not only by the Hebrew and by Christians, but even by heathens also. She spoke of the survival of these holy garments, and of other ancient costumes in the sacred vestments used in our own days. Mrs. Dammann described the garments of the Roman Catholic priest in celebrating the mass, and also showed them to us in beautiful reality, telling us of the religious and historical meaning and purport--and of the prayers appropriate to the putting on of each of them. By the side of the magnificent brocades embroidered with silver and pearl and real gold thread that were shown to us with the laces and exquisite illuminated work, there were some things of peculiar historical interest. One was the faded chasuble that had been worn by Father White, the chaplain of the first Noble Calvert who came to Maryland, more than two and a half centuries ago. Another was an old Mexican vestment that had been used in the chapel of the emperor Augustin Iturbide.

[55]

Another was a long scarf from the Phillipine Islands, the work of two nuns who were said to have devoted their lives to it. It was made of the inner fibre of the pineapple, and was lent by Miss [Grace] Balch. Among many beautiful things the jewelled altar cloths of Grace Episcopal Church, and St. Michael and All Angels were much admired. Of a different kind, but of very great interest, was shown in a Chinese Mandarin’s coat, said to be two hundred years old.

The last article of the programme given us was offered by Miss Haughton, and read by Miss [Mary F.] Grace. It was on “The Symbols of the Jewish Church.” It spoke of a worship of thousands of years ago, remaining almost unmodified to day. The same customs, the same symbols of the early Old Testament Scriptures, so far as it can be carried out, the same ceremonial used in Ancient Palestine, with its gold and purple and fine linen;--for the Hebrew has always given of his best to the service of his God. We were shown the Curtain placed before the ark containing the scrolls of the Law;--a beautiful drapery of white brocade and silver,--the scrolls themselves with their strange silver ornaments, and their embroidered velvet covering; the singular silver breast-plate of the Hebrew priest, worn during service, and also the silver rod and wand, held by the Reader of the Law, said to be the same symbols used in Somolan’s Temple, three thousand years ago, truly seeming to call for reverential regard now. Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord now spoke of some

[56]

remarkable work done by nuns in Cologne. After much appreciative enjoyment of the wonderful suggestive art and beauty around us, the one hundredth regular literary meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)