---
title: 1894-02-06 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-02-06-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[61]

## Board of Management. February 6th, 1894.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday, February 6th, 1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. This meeting was attended by eight members;--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--Second Vice President [Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton],--Recording Secretary [Lydia Crane],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann,--Miss [Grace] Balch,--and Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early.

[62]

The resignation of Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock as Corresponding Secretary having been announced,--the first business in order was election to fill this vacancy. Mrs. Gaston [Lily Tyson] Manly was immediately elected Corresponding Secretary of the Club.

The question was then discussed whether we should have an entertainment, or anything like a general reception this year? The suggestion was made that, if this was done, the former members of the Club should be invited to it. The question of the limitations of invitations, and the very important question of the limitations of our income--heretofore, and at the present time--occupied the attention of the Board for some time. The Treasurer made an informal statement of the present condition of the finances of the Club, and a general estimate of future expenses, no decisive action was taken with regard to the proposed entertainment, though the proposal seemed to meet favorable consideration.

The question of cutting off some of our smaller expenses,--as unnecessary ones,--was also discussed.

The meeting adjourned.

[63]

After adjournment some discussion took place on the admission of new members; especially in connection with the subject of the votes that may follow our new Act of Incorporation. The names of probable new members were discussed.

This was followed by a second informal adjournment.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)