---
title: 1894-03-13 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-13-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 104th Meeting March 13th, 1894.

The 104th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, March 13th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of

[83]

the meeting of March 6th. It was announced that this meeting was to be under the direction of Miss Lizette [Woodworth] Reese, the Chairman of the Committee on Modern Poetry.

The first article on the programme was a poem by Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter, called “A Conceit,” which was read by Mrs. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley. It reminded us of the falling roses and the dusks of Autumn, and of the gloom of Winter, and of the reviving presence of a bright and warm human love. The announcement was made that Mrs. Easter was recovering from her severe illness. Our programme next called for a poem by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock however told us that she had left her own translation at home, and had brought us instead a printed article, with which she had been very much impressed. She then read to us a poem which appeared in Scribner’s Magazine for last January,--called “The Wolf is at the Door,” and written by Charlotte Perkins Stetson.[^Gilman] It falls upon the unemployed poor,--not the dread of dying like men, by lead or steel, but of being devoured--themselves and their little ones--by slow starvation. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham said she thanked Mrs. Whitelock for the poem she had given us; but thought she still owed us the one we had expected to hear.

[^Gilman]: Charlotte Perkins Gilman Stetson (1860-1935) was the great-niece of several important female members of the Beecher family, including Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isabella Beecher Hooker, and Catharine Beecher. Like them, she became a prominent figure in the history of women's rights in the U.S. Her written works included poetry, fiction (the short story "The Yellow Wallpaper" (1892), a fictionalized account of her treatment of post-partum depression at the hands of psychologist S. Weir Mitchell, is her best-known work), and non-fiction, including several volumes treating the role of women in society. She lectured widely and was the editor of and principal contributor to the feminist montly magazine _The Forerunner_.

The next article on our programme was by Miss Imogen George, and was on Sidney Lanier

[84]

and his work. Miss George spoke of the place in our literature won by the street singer, whose songs must live longer than those of many others now popular among us,--of him whose truth and purity and faith shine like the stars above us. She would not dwell on his life and personal qualities known so well here in Baltimore, but she went on to speak of the true poet and musician--who loved God and little children--and of the humor and broad religion, of the love, first pure, and then holy to be found in his writings. We were next given a poem by Miss Grace Denio Litchfield, one of our honorary members. It was called “Courage,”[^Courage] and was appreciatively read by Miss Virginia [Woodward] Cloud. It calls on the brave mariner mariner who has suffered shipwreck before he could reach the haven of refuge, to plant on the cliffs a victor’s cross, even though it marks the spot where a barque went down.

[^Courage]: "Courage" was first published in the _Independent_ magazine on Aug. 3, 1893, and was included in Grace Denio Litchfield's book _Mimosa Leaves_ (1895).

The last article on our programme was by Miss Reese, and was on “Poetry as a Means of Education.” Miss Reese spoke of the mercantile spirit, which would make “getting on” in the world the chief end and aim of education, which puts mathematics in the foremost place and gives literature a much lower one. The mercantile spirit and the missionary spirit, have brought on a reaction from the old happy go luck readings of former days. Jack is becoming a dull boy instructed in facts and figures, and is letting his mysteries and illusions go. The “Rollo” books were

[85]

pioneers in the line of fact, teaching children’s stories, and have had many successors.[^Rollo] But the old happy go lucky readings gave true human delight, and the child can still travel the heights of imagination, the dark still pursues him, the wind answers him, the moon looks at him. A child who reads good poems, lays up a store of good words for future use; and every good word, lives quite as long as, we are told, every idle word does. How much of Shakespeare do many of us use unconsciously every day? Miss Reese spoke of the influence of a liturgical form of worship, in teaching good language to those who use it. She told of a lady who taught her Sunday School class a poem of George Herbert’s and so gave one of her pupils the only bit of culture that has followed him through life. She said, “we cannot parse John Milton, and read him too.” Some classics have been belittled to us by the effort to break them up into nine parts of speech. Can the expert do more with a poem, than he can do who listens to it only as he does to a strain of music, and so is richer by one mystery the more. Cabbages can be bought at any market, we have June roses, only in June. Miss Reese spoke of the simple lines learned in childhood, that we never forget; and told us that poetry will never fail us, as long as we have the mother and the child with us still.

[^Rollo]: The Congregationalist minister Jacob Abbott (1803-1879) wrote 14 morally edifying books for children featuring the character Rollo between 1835-1842. The popularity of these books led to a number of other series, including the "Cousin Lucy" books, the "Franconia Stories," and the "Moral Library."

The President announced that our next meeting will be under the direction of Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, the chairman of the Committee on Archaeology, and as

[86]

some visitors are expected to be present, it will be well to have ushers appointed for that occasion. She then appointed Miss Mabel Carter and Miss George to act in that capacity on that evening.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)