---
title: 1894-02-27 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-02-27-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 31st Salon. February 27th, 1894.

The 31st Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, February 27th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President called the meeting to order. She reminded the Club of the very pleasant letter from our former President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, which she had read to us at the meeting of the last Tuesday, and said she had omitted to repeat the address of Mrs. Turnbull which is: Care of Brown, Shipley and Company, Bankers, London, England. She added that Mrs. Turnbull had requested that as many of the Club as could do so would write to her. The President also announced that this meeting was under the direction of Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton of the Committee on Music. We were then given

[75]

three songs by Miss Leila [Lila] Snyder, accompanied by Mrs. [Joseph F.] Shefloe, and three more by Miss Celeste Winans Crown; also three more songs by Mrs. Gray. We were also given Piano solos by Miss Annie Perrin. The music was highly appreciated, and enjoyed by the Club.

The only literary article on the programme was given by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, and was “A Talk on Songs.” After a few words on lyrical composition in general, Miss Reese spoke of reading songs and singing songs. A poet she said ought to be born with an ear; but of course, all poems can not be sung,--some are meant only to be read. She spoke of the songs that are meant to be sung, but do not give themselves kindly to that service. Some songs which have the true singing qualities hold their own for centuries. The old Cavalier songs, the later Irish melodies, and others of kindred nature, are still sung and enjoyed, while many written since, and even in our own time, have sunk, or are sinking into forgetfulness. She spoke of Thomas Moore’s power of fitting words and music to each other,--also of the work of other true songsters. We were reminded of old melodies and of “soft airs” “married to immortal verse,” that seem to go on sounding through the ages.

At the close of Miss Reese’s article, the President announced that she had received through the mail, a poem type-written with the request that it might be read to the Club. The outside address was type-written also, and the request was endorsed only “One of the members.” Mrs.

[76]

[Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall was requested to read the poem, and did so. It was entitled: “To the Ideal Member of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore.” This Miss Reese suggested might apply to our former President. It called on the guardian of the world ideal to hold the standard high, to remember the resting of the Son of God in Woman’s Care,--still to touch His garment’s hem and let her feet tread near to him.

The Recording Secretary was then requested to read the minutes of the meeting of February 20th, and did so. The President proposed a vote of thanks to Miss Haughton for her efforts to give us the musical entertainment of the evening. This having been done, the meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)