---
title: 1894-05-08 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-05-08-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## MS 988, Box 3 (Book dated Dec. 26, 1893- June 9, 1894)

[133]

## 110th Meeting. May 8th, 1894.

The 110th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, May 8th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was under the direction of Miss Lucy Comins, Chairman of the Committee on Art. The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of May 1st.

Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham then said a few words regarding the work of the Lend a Hand Club of Mt. Washington; also introducing the organ of that society. The Mt. Washington Advocate, for which she said she would be glad to gain the aid--literary, and otherwise--of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore.[^Lend] Miss Brent [Emma Fenwick Brent], our President, spoke of the desire to have useful books for our Club Library; and also to have lists of the books which will be servic[e]able to us in our various lines of study. The President also laid before the Club a proposition which has come to us from members of the Arundel Club, Mrs. Griffin, First Vice President of the Arundel Club, and Mrs. Anderson,

[^Lend]: Graham was the founder and president of the Lend-a-Hand Club, the first women's club in Maryland.

[134]

and in which our fellow member, Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor, who has lately come from Chicago[,] was much interested. Our attention has been called to the fact that Mrs. Hensotin of Chicago, the President of the Federation of Women’s Clubs of America, which has been holding a meeting in Philadelphia, would be in Baltimore during this week; and also that it would be desirable for this lady to address the Women’s Clubs of Baltimore. It was proposed to invite the other Women’s Clubs of Baltimore to our next meeting to hear an address from Mrs. Hensotin. A motion of this effect was made, seconded, and passed without opposition. The President said we would this evening make some changes in our programme;--that her own article instead of being read first would find its place later in the afternoon.

The first article given us was written and read by Miss Piggott [Margaret Moore Piggot]; and was called: “A Plea for Out-Door Sketching.” Miss Piggott spoke of the beauty of Nature in its reality; of the lights and shades that Turner himself could not bring away from field and sea and sky--and that most of us would not dare to paint just as they look to us;--and of the fairy gold that melts away before it can be coined. She told of the very small outfit she took with her into her open air sketching. It was not too small however to prevent her from receiving in one small town the information that book agents were not let in, nor to save her from the questions of a war-veteran, who wished to know

[135]

in what hall she was giving a lecture, or what newspaper she wrote for. She went on to speak of light, the light that God gave to the world when it was yet without form and void, and she quoted the advice of an artist to take care of the lights, and the shadows would take care of themselves. She said we must not be afraid of Nature; we must be on good terms with “all out of doors,” if we would learn “the rhymes of the universe.” That the old Pagans wrought directly from Nature, they worshipped the immortality of youth and strength, and the God-head in each human creature. That honesty begins at home, we must tell the truth with pencil or brush, without regard to stumbling blocks or tricks of trade. We have no right to paint roses blue, because they match the surrounding colors of the landscape. Art cannot be taught in six easy lessons. We must climb the Hill Difficulty, which has lost none of its characteristics since Bunyan’s day.[^Bunyan] It has been said: “An honest man is the lovliest work of God.” But he does not walk in darkness, and the true artist may attain to a gleam of that “light that never was on sea or land.” Miss Piggott illustrated her reading with sketches from her own open air work.

[^Bunyan] Hill Difficulty (or the Hill of Difficulty) is one of the many obstacles encountered by John Bunyan's hero, Christian, in his religious allegory _The Pilgrim's Progress_ (1678)

The next article given us was by Mrs. William Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson, and was on “Old English Silver.” Mrs. Johnson said she had brought to this meeting a few specimens of old silver, and would ask the President for five minutes after her reading to

[136]

explain their dates and use. She told us of the old and rich City Companies of London, especially of the Goldsmith’s Company, and of the Goldsmith’s Hall. Also of the Hall mark attesting the genuineness of silver plate, real silver, not the plated ware sometimes incorrectly called plate in America. Mrs. Johnson also gave us a clear and interesting historical explanation of the official marks on English silver, which leave no chance for fraud; and described those which have been in use in England, and in some parts of Germany, from the year 1180 onward, as well as those in use in the present day. She spoke of curious table ware and curious customs,--still surviving in our mother country. Also of the very large amount of plate preserved, often for centuries, even by the lower middle class people of England; and this too notwithstanding the loss of the English plate that during the civil wars, and since then, must have been sent to the smelting pot, and made into money. In English wills and inventories we find large records and bequests of plate. We were shown the Nef, a metal ship or rather boat,[^nef] which the feudal lord of the 14th century took pride in possessing. In this were kept the lord’s own napkin, knife, spoon, spices and salt; it being put on his table for his meal and straightway taken off and locked up after then, for fear of poison, a way of taking off, familiar in those days. Mrs. Johnson’s Nef was of fine copper, carved and polished, but we were told many great lords had them made of

[^nef]: A nef was not literally a ship, but a decorative piece of tableware  that took the shape of a ship or boat and held items for table service, as described by Johnson.

[137]

silver, and the Duke of Anjou had one worth much gold. The use of spoons was, we were reminded, much more ancient than that of forks, which latter came to England from Italy in 1607. But some spoons were not only of silver, but even of pewter, as well as some wooden trenchers have great value for patterns and antiquity. The English acorn-headed spoons, of which we were shown a specimen of the 13th century--the maiden head spoon of the 14th century, with the head of the Virgin Mary on the end of it, were shown to us. Also the Apostle spoons, favorite presents from sponsors at christenings, mentioned by Ben Jonson, and by Beaumont and Fletcher.[^Beaumont] Of these 13 were a set; one, the master spoon[,] having the figure of Christ with a halo of rays, one with the figure of St. Peter, bearing a key almost as long as himself, and the other apostles having appropriate emblems. It was as a real enjoyment to look at and touch these real old Apostle spoons. We were shown an old loving cup, and told that in the old days when one knight was drinking, two others stood beside him, because a man drinking was helpless against assassination. Another beautiful specimen of old silver was a pomander, a round box, pierced with holes to contain spices or perfumes; hung from a lady’s belt by a chain, and worn as a preventive of infection during the prevalence of the plague, as in London in 1665, and as a sanitary measure at any time. Mrs. Johnson also showed us two necklaces made of the silver

[^Beaumont]: Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher were English dramatists and partners active during the reign of James I (1603–25).

[138]

clasps of old missals, in pairs with carved heads of saints upon them; having also little pendant silver tassels from the corner of those books of devotion of our ancestry, or their contemporaries.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham, and was given as two poems: “Becalmed[“] and “Purple Horrors.” In the first she described to us her own conception of Art at the present day, as a beautiful ship lying becalmed on a silent sea, waiting for the winds from heaven to stir the waters, or for the breathings of inspiration to fill the sails. Mrs. Graham then describes with wit and vivacity a visit she had made to an Exhibition of Water-Color pictures in New York, and the Purple Horrors she recounted there from the modern rage for heliotrope and violet and all the shades we have been accustomed to call purple. It was suggested that a picture ought to tell you something; also that the royal purple was not meant for a landscape, for landscapes with no sky in them. Mrs. Graham quoted the opinion of an artist that we may have a language, but nothing to say in it. She spoke with admiration however of a picture by [Abbott Handerson] Thayer, called A Virgin Enthroned [1891], representing his sister who is adored by his children;--a subject that would appeal to all of us.[^Virgin]

[^Virgin]: Thayer's [_Virgin Enthroned_] (https://americanart.si.edu/artwork/virgin-enthroned-23957) is held in the Smithsonian American Art Museum. 

The next article on our programme was on “Art and its Compensation,” by Miss Lucy Comins. Before reading, Miss Comins spoke of her own visit to an Exhibition of Water Colors; and described what

[139]

she had really seen to admire there. She also presented the claims to our attention of the Baltimore Water Color Association; and spoke of the efforts made to increase its honorary membership. In regard to Art and its compensation, Miss Comins spoke of the audacity of despair which sometimes seems to lie behind great undertakings. Great artists often remain for a time unknown, because it takes a genius to recognize a genius. Miss Comins went on to speak of Albert [Abbott] Thayer and William Hunt, who, capable of superb work, have left us only suggestions of what they might have done. Those who see through and beyond our ordinary life, not only the intellectual and the artistic, but also the sublime, must be absolutely great. Miss Comins also spoke of the censure often bestowed upon women of leisure who receive compensation for their work as artists, when others are in need of it. She thought that the women who are not self-supporting may have their part in raising the standard of the work that is sold. Speaking of the point of view of those of us who are dependent upon our work, she thought we were somewhat indebted to women of leisure for keeping us on a higher plain than we should otherwise possess. Some of these women, who have no pressure to dispose of their unsatisfactory work, have been able to aid the struggling artists around them in other ways also. Miss Comins paid a generous tribute to several women artists by name. Mrs. Graham spoke of the need for artistic work to stand on its own merits. The hour being rather

[140]

late, our President insisted on omitting her own article from the afternoon’s exercises. Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock made the announcement that our former President, Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, expects to return from Europe, and to be back among us in August or September. The President announced that we had with us this evening, as a visitor[,] our former member, Miss [Margaret Sutton] Briscoe, whom she felt sure we would be glad to meet again.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)