---
title: 1894-01-16 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-16-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[39]

## 98th Meeting. January 16th, 1894.

The 98th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 16th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. It was a Dramatic meeting and the members of the Shakespeare Club were invited to be present. The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of January 9th.

[40]

The Treasurer, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, presented her semi-annual Report. (Which had been ready at the last meeting but had been crowded out by other business.) The Report was full and exact. In general terms the balance brought over from the former six months was: $147.44. Dues up to date, $405.00 making $552.44. The expense of various kinds, including furnishing etc., had been $391.67. The balance on hand was $160.77. The Report was approved.

The first article on our programme was by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, and was called: “How I went to see John Drew in Lent.”[^Drew] Mrs. Whitelock spoke of the newspaper reporter, otherwise known as the professional interviewer. She said that when going to live at the Mt. Vernon Hotel, she had hoped to see something of the celebrated people who would certainly be guests there, perhaps to satisfy for herself that curious interest which the interviewer gives all of us credit--for possessing,--more or less. But the celebrities did not bestow themselves upon the other guests in the hotel to any great extent. When Mr. John Drew was, as she knew, staying in the house, during one Lenten season,--she was much attracted at dinner time by a party of four at the next table; and could not keep hearing their conversation, and fully recognizing its professional flavor. The gentleman of the party had a singularly attractive face, the kindest sort of voice, and a beautiful smile, especially when talking to his wife. Altogether she found him most pleasing,--and his discourse, with the aforesaid

[^Drew]: John Drew, Jr. (1853-1927) was a popular comic actor of the nineteenth century and the uncle of actors John, Ethel, and Lionel Barrymore and great-great-uncle to Drew Barrymore.

[41]

voice and professional flavor--no less so. She had not gone to the theatre in Lent; but on telling a sister, less orthodox--if that is the right expression--than herself, she was informed that Mr. John Drew looked like a frog, and was squint-eyed, and that the beautiful smile was incredible. She herself, expatiated on the beautifying power of genius and character, without convincing her sister, who declined an invitation to stay to dinner, in order to be convinced. She then made up her mind to go to see John Drew on the stage,--and went. In arriving at the theatre, a huge poster met her eyes, with a picture of the “star.” She said it was a very bad likeness, and was then informed that she had come to see the wrong man. She saw John Drew, and thought him not so ugly nor with quite such obliquity of vision as she had been prepared to find him.

But she was soon convinced that the handsome face, kind voice and beautiful smile of the dinner table, all belonged to Mr. Sol Smith Russell.[^Russell] She went on to tell that by rare good fortune, she did have a conversation with Mr. Russell at the hotel, shook hands with him, and had the smile bestowed upon herself for a little while. Mr. Russell said that Jefferson was the Bishop whom he followed. He told the story of his having in on city, boarded with a good Methodist lady, who had never been to the theatre in her life. Once, when the play was very good, he invited his hostess to see it. Some days afterwards, she informed him that she did not

[^Russell]: Solomon Smith Russell (1848–1902) was another comic actor of the era.

[42]

know how such a good peaceable gentleman as himself could “cut up” on the stage as he did. The conversation was interrupted, and Mrs. Whitelock was not able to ask whether the good lady had really gone to see the Russell play, or whether she had formed her opinion with regard to the “cutting up” on hearsay evidence only.

The next article on our programme was called “The Hue of the Apple: A Tragedy,” and was written by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton. She took us back to the old story of Adam and Eve,--and farther back still to the traditional Lilith,--Adam’s first wife, and to the jealousy of the first women over the first man; all of which is reproduced or exemplified by the three modern children of Adam and Eve,--The two women and one man of Miss Haughton’s Tragedy. Jack Adams, has been Lily’s Jack, and is now Evelyn’s Jack, and Lily is determined that he shall be her Jack again. We have heard that two against one is hardly fair. The fight of wits and wills is a fierce one. Lily sings: “Alas, how often things go wrong!” But the denouement, in which Jack continues to be Evelyn’s Jack, might be right or wrong to the different members of Miss Haughton’s audience, according to their different points of view. This appearance in the interested and lively discussion that followed Miss Haughton’s reading.

The next article on the programme was on “The Drama,” and was by Miss [Louise] Malloy. She spoke of the intellectual pleasure to be derived from the Drama. Then of the demand of the audience of today for comedy, rather than for tragedy. But Shakespeare,

[43]

she said, has not lost his power, nor has that amiable abstraction called that Public, lost all its taste for tragedy. Give us another Shakespeare, and see how we will follow him. She spoke of American Dramatic Writers, especially of Bronson, Howard, George H. Boker, Dr. Bird and George H. Miles of our own city. The thought the coming American Drama will be at least cleaner than that of other nations--founded on more of healthy common sense. An American seems to think that the suspicious husband who kills his wife, ought to rank with the one who beats her when she offends him. He would hoot from the stage, the sham honors that rank with the bogey man that eats up little boys. We have dramatic elements and advantage in the full human life around us. Why, we are asked, should we go abroad to dig for gold, when it lies here at our feet.

At the conclusion of Miss Malloy’s article, we were favored with two poems by Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese. The first was “Peach Blossoms in Maryland,” and the second: “All in an April Wood”: bringing us the hues and scents and fresh air of our own woods and fields, and the human sympathy they call forth,--in sweet graceful verse.

The last article read to us was by Mrs. Whitelock, and was read by Miss [Mary F.] Grace. It was called “A Great Silent Personality” It spoke of the hobbies ridden by some authors, which sometimes seem unridden for a while, and yet are not overturned nor destroyed. The so called Shakespeare Controversy is one of these,

[44]

and the question again is heard: “Who is William Shakespeare?["] Is he a myth? Or a name?--a common place play actor? He certainly lived and died,--whether he wrote all ascribed to him or not. We do hear of him as man, writer and actor. Of the man, what do the records tell? That his parents were ignorant, that he left school at fourteen, married at eighteen, was an actor, stage manager etc.--and some other items that do not seem to substantiate his claims to genius and erudition. What else we have seems negative testimony. The man fails to respond when we reach out to touch him. Did he touch men when lived? We do not know much of the actor. Who wrote the plays? asks the Nineteenth Century. This essay went over the Shakespeare Controversy, bringing the argument and comments relating to it before us. The theory was advanced, that the actor Shakespeare not only took his plots from others, but took the plays of others, who perhaps did not wish to figure as play-wrights, and adapted them for the stage. That the adapter became one of the immortals after the great writers and the small ones had gone to another immortality.

There was much interest in the comments and expressions of opinion which followed this article, until the meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)