---
title: 1894-04-05 Special Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-04-05-special.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## MS 988, Box 3 (Book dated Dec. 26, 1893- June 9, 1894)

[100] 

## Special Meeting. April 5th, 1894.

A special meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, for Constitutional Business, was held on Friday afternoon, April 5th 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The meeting was called to order by the Second Vice President, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton, who was the highest officer present. The President,

[101]

Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, wrote a note to tell us that she was, to her great regret, prevented by severe indisposition from coming to the meeting. The roll was called by the Recording Secretary [Lydia Crane], and the responses noted by Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock]. The required quorum being announced to be present, the Act of Incorporation of the Club was then read from the certified copy sent to the Treasurer. Before proceeding to the adoption of a Constitution, the motion was made and seconded, that we now vote in the members who have not, for various reasons, signed the Act of Incorporation. The motion was carried without opposition, and the members of the Club who have not resigned, were so made members of the Club as they were before the Incorporation.

The question then arose whether we should on this occasion exercise the privilege of voting new members into the Club? or should wait until the new Constitution is adopted?--or until the first Tuesday in May, our former time for such elections. The presiding officer asked for the opinions of the members. An amicable discussion followed by Mrs. [Florence McIntyre] Tyson, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, Mrs. [Li] Goddard, Mrs. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley, Mrs. [Martha Lee] Jenkins, Mrs. [Thomas S.] Morris, Miss [Leonora] Griffith and others. The opinion of the speakers seemed to be the safer plan on the whole to wait until our usual time, for electing new members; and that the adoption of a Constitution should now occupy our attention. The presiding officer reminded us that the first Tuesday in May was little more than three weeks off now. The motion was made and seconded “That we shall elect new

[102]

members into the Club to day.” It was defeated by a large majority. Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann then called our attention to the Revised Constitution, also known as the "Minority Report" of the Committee appointed to prepare Amendments to the Constitution last October. The question arose whether this Constitution should be voted upon Article by Article or not? and opinions were expressed that it ought to be taken as a whole. Mrs. Bullock reminded us that Article Third. Section First. of the Revised Constitution reads: "No expenses should be incurred in excess of estimated income of the Club." She moved that we shall go back to the wording of the old Constitution, which reads: "No expenses shall be incurred in excess of the funds already in the treasury." The motion was seconded and carried without further discussion. Mrs. Bullock spoke of several verbal changes which it would be well to consider. The question of the limit of distance for non-resident membership was discussed, especially whether the change might be made from twenty miles to twelve miles, with advantage to the Club? counted from the City Hall, or from the City limits? After discussion by Mrs. [Lucy Randolph] Cautley, Miss [Reiba] Thelin, Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, and others, Miss [Grace] Balch moved that members living ten miles from the city limits shall be considered non-residents. Mrs. Tyson seconded the motion, and it was carried without further opposition. The Treasurer then spoke of Article Fifth. "On Dues of the Revised Constitution." She gave many

[103]

reasons chiefly drawn from her own experience as Treasurer of the Club, for changing Section Second of the Article, which reads: "When the dues of members shall remain unpaid for two months, the Treasurer shall notify her of the fact, and unless the same shall be paid within two weeks thereafter, she will be supposed to have withdrawn." A substitute for this section was offered by Mrs. Bullock, and seconded by Mrs. Wrenshall, which read, "When the dues of any member shall remain unpaid for two months, the Treasurer shall notify her of the fact. After such notification the privilege of voting shall be withheld until dues are paid." It was carried immediately.

Our attention was then called to Article Seventh, Section Second.--the word "Club" should be substitute for the word "members." A proposition was made to change the limit of the number of visitors from twenty five to twenty; but this matter was not specially considered. Mrs. Dammann then moved that the Revised Constitution as now amended, be adopted as a whole. The motion was seconded by Miss [Mary F.] Grace and Mrs. Goddard, and was carried unanimously.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)