---
title: 1894-05-22 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-05-22-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[145]

## 112th Meeting. May 22nd, 1894.

The 112th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, May 22nd, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This meeting was the occasion of the annual election of the officers of the Club. The Election Rules on trial for adoption made it the first action of this meeting for every member to receive at the desk outside of the door of our meeting room, a printed sheet containing the nominations for all the officers to be elected. The members having received these sheets, passed into the room; and the President called the meeting to order. The Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of May 15th. The President said a few words in explanation of the manner in which the election was to be conducted. She also reminded us that 18 new members were expected to be present with us at the meeting of the 5th of June, and to receive their certificates of membership.

The hour for the election having arrived, the Recording Secretary called the roll, and announced 35 members as present. 5 more than the meeting quorum to transact business. 3 members arriving a

[146]

little late made the number 38. Mrs. Wiley was appointed Judge of Election, Mrs. [Sally K.] Carter Recording Clerk, and Mrs. George Balloting Clerk. The 2 Clerks came through the room receiving and recording the folding balloting sheet of each member, and then retired with the Judge to the Committee room to count the votes and ascertain the results.

The President proposed that while we were waiting for the Report of the Election Committee, we should hear the Reports of our delegates to the Biennial Convention in Philadelphia of the Federation of Women’s Clubs of America. Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, the Chairman of Correspondence for the State of Maryland, was the first delegate called upon. Mrs. Wrenshall gave us the Report she had read in Philadelphia in representing the 3 federated Clubs in Maryland: The Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, the Arundel Club and the Lend a Hand Club of Mt. Washington. She prefaced it with the remark that it had one merit--that of being very brief. She had been given at first 3 minutes to read it, but was reduced to 2 and actually allowed about 2 1/2. After a correct and clear statement of our organization and work, Mrs. Wrenshall dwelt on the fact of the large number--70 per cent--of the members of our Club who have appeared in print;--also of the maintenance of our literary name and character. After reading the Report of the three Clubs as given in Philadelphia, Mrs. Wrenshall spoke of the interest and pleasure of our delegates in hearing the Reports from other

[147]

Clubs all over our country, representing 50,000 women. Also in knowing the value of our own methods of action to be confined by the testimony of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe and other distinguished literary women, and in finding encouragement and hope for our own future in the experience of others like ourselves.

Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock was next called upon, and told us of a discussion she had heard at the Convention on the Ideal Club; also of the speech of a real Syrian woman, who spoke English with a charming accent. We were also told of visitors from Ceylon and from the Bombay Sorosis. Mrs. Bullock said, that in her speech at the convention, she had made mention of the special features of our Woman’s Literary Club, of our requiring qualifications for membership, and of our expecting literary work of some kind from each one of our members. Also of our broad range of subjects for treatment, literary, social and political,--with no limitation in the manner of treating them. But, she had said a portion of our members, finding even our boundaries too restrictive, had gone beyond them, and had founded a Club of grander proportions than our own, and that we could be proud of so fine a daughter as the Arundel Club. Mrs. Bullock also spoke of the discussion whether men could be advantageously admitted into Women’s Clubs, as is said to have been done, to some extent, in the New Century Club in Philadelphia. We were told of the elegant hospitality of the New Century Club to the Federation, also of the business like manner

[148]

in which business affairs were carried on in the Convention, and of the good order and impartiality maintained in its meetings. Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord spoke of the election of a new President of the Federation of Clubs, and of the ease and order with which this election was conducted. Mrs. Lord also spoke of the election for a Board of Directors for the Federation of Clubs, on which occasion the Maryland delegates waived the claims of their State in favor of a Director from the city of Washington.

Mrs. Wrenshall, Miss Comins and Miss [Mary Worthington] Milnor spoke of the definite purposes of the Federation of Women’s Clubs of America, and of the necessity for keeping them on a high plane of motive and action. Mrs. Sidney [Clara B. Newman] Turner then gave us an account of having been present in Minneapolis at a meeting of the Woman’s Club of that place, at which meeting the New Century Club of St. Paul was also represented. She told of having listened on this occasion to very brilliant conversation and discussion on high and deep subjects. They reviewed the influence of evolution, heredity and civilization on morality; and also debated the question whether civilization has developed justice as it has done benevolence among men. Mrs. Turner ventured to give our greeting to our Western sisters, and received theirs for us in return. Our President said that intelligent discussions in literary and social Clubs might help to restore what has been called the lost art of conversation. It was announced that the programme for the meeting of next Tuesday, would be under

[149]

the charge of Mrs. Graham, Chairman of the Committee on Modern Philanthropy.

The annual Report of the Treasurer, Mrs. Bullock, being in order at this meeting was now called for, and was read. It stated that the balance in Bank at the beginning of the year was $147.44. Receipts for the first half of the year $405 and for the second half year $270, making by the three sums $822, 44 cents. Expenses for different items; as Furnishing, Teas, Painting, Dues to the Academy of Sciences,--as Honorary Members,--Federations Incorporation, and other regular and incidental changes given us, amounted to $790.97. Balance $25.47. Mrs. Bullock made some explanations of some points in her Report, and also with regard to some money due to the Club remaining unpaid. She requested the appointment of Auditors to examine her accounts,--a form observed in former years;--to which the President agreed. It was moved that the Treasurer’s Report be received and approved;--which motion was seconded and carried immediately without opposition.

The Election Committee returned to report the names of the successful candidates. The Judge, Mrs. Wylie[,] announced as elected President Mrs. Lawrence [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, First Vice President, Mrs. Waller [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, Second Vice President, Mrs. Louise O. C.  [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton,--Recording Secretary, Miss Lydia Crane,--Corresponding Secretary,--Miss Grace Balch--Treasurer. Mrs. Francis  [Aileen B. C.] Dammann--Directors, Mrs. L. H. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge]Wrenshall,--Mrs. C. W. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Mrs J. D. [Maud Graham] Early--Mrs H. P. [Li] Goddard--Mrs. Gaston [Lily Tyson] Manly and Miss Louise Malloy. A note of

[150]

thanks to our Election Committee for their services was prepared, and carried by general consent. The meeting having adjourned, many congratulations were heard on the ease and expedition with which our election had been accomplished.

It is natural to remember the repeated injunction of our former and now re-elected President, Mrs. Turnbull[,] that the details of business should never usurp the place of our literary work, that work which is the reason for our existence as a Club. We may believe that she will come back to us to find us engaged in the study of Literature,--the Literature which our poet Lowell has called “the unconscious autobiography of mankind.”
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)