---
title: 1894-01-09 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-09-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[35]

## 97th Meeting[.] January 9th, 1894.

The 97th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, January 9th 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order. The Recording Secretary read the minutes of four previous meetings:--those of the literary meetings of December 19th; of the Business meeting and Salon of December 26th; of the Special Business meeting of December 29th 1893; and of the literary meeting of January 2nd, 1894. The two business meetings having been somewhat difficult to report, she asked for any corrections which might be thought necessary by her fellow members.

Miss [Eliza] Ridgely then asked leave to read a Protest signed by herself and Mrs. [Laura] Atkinson against the work of incorporation of the Club, done at the special meeting of December 29th, 1893. She also asked that this protest should be recorded in the minutes of this meeting. The Protest. “We the Undersigned, do most earnestly protest against the action taken by the Special Meeting of Friday, December 29th, 1893, to incorporate the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore.” We do not oppose Incorporation per se, but we ask that it take place only after due and general consideration, and that it take place Constitutionally according to Article VII, Section I, which says, “No alteration of the Constitution shall be made unless the same be proposed at a regular meeting

[36]

and be finally adopted by a vote of two-thirds of the members present at a subsequent meeting, where twenty shall constitute a quorum.” Then followed the signatures of “Laura Atkinson” and “Eliza Ridgely.” Miss Ridgely proposed to have the work of incorporation done over again in a more regular and constitutional manner. Some discussion arose. Miss Ridgely said that her motion was to reconsider the work that had been done. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin].

The President asked Miss Ridgely if she had voted on the majority side of this question or on that of the minority? Miss Ridgely said she had voted against the incorporation. The President said she had voted according to Parliamentary Law, only a member of a majority had the right to move a reconsideration. She requested the Secretary to read the ruling of Cushing on Parliamentary Law upon this point. After this reading, Mrs. Franklin said she must withdraw her seconding of the motion to reconsider. Miss Ridgely asked for the consideration of the protest. Mrs. Atkinson also spoke in favor of the protest signed by herself and Miss Ridgely. The President called our attention to the fact that this was a literary meeting. A meeting was proposed for explanations and comparison of views on the matter under discussion. Some members said this was unnecessary. Miss Ridgely proposed to explain another point regarding Incorporation, but it was decided that she was out of order. Some remarks were made by Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, Mrs. [Leonora] Griffith and Mrs. [Annie Leakin] Sioussat, and Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann

[37]

read a legal opinion on the subject of Incorporation. The President reminded us that as this was a literary meeting, it was not in order to allow business to interfere with the programme prepared for it. Some announcements were made to the Club;--especially the results of the election to fill vacancies in the Board of Management, which had taken place in the meeting of the Board this same afternoon. Miss [Grace] Balch and Mrs. [Rebecca Lloyd Nicholson] Shippen had been elected members of the Board of Management, and Mrs. William Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson had been elected First Vice President of the Club, in place of Miss [Elizabeth T.] King.

The first article on our programme was by Mrs. Fabian Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], and was called “Notes on England.” she spoke of English views of America; and then of some things particularly striking to an American in England:--for instance the custom of not checking baggage. She spoke of the noble Englishman, who did not like to be separated from his “luggage,” and who complained that in America there was no cab to take him and his belongings from the station to the hotel. Cabs, she acknowledged, do belong to good street pavement, and good city government. But the antiquated absence of baggage checking in railways, would seem to show that the Englishman likes discomfort far better than change. Mrs. Franklin spoke of the bewilderment and inconvenience of travellers, and of the confusion and anxiety which interfere with their parting directions and affectional adieus, and leave them no peace of mind in

[38]

journeying. She spoke of the badness of English hotels, outside of London; of the toughness of the meat and the bread, which is equalled only by the length of the bill. The Continental dinner is the acme of civilization, but since English hotels are conducted on the penny-wise and pound-foolish plan of saving in the wrong places. Mrs. Franklin told of two American ladies who agreed that English hotels were extremely bad ones; but one lady made an exception of one hotel--and only one, naming it. The other lady said that was the only one with which she was acquainted, and on her experiences of that one, her opinion had been based. We have much to learn from old England, of course; but on one or two subjects, she might learn from us--or from her neighbors across the Channel.

Miss [Mary F.] Grace spoke of having lost a trunk three times between Cork and Killarney. Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton told of a gentleman who had his baggage painted red, white and blue, for purposes of identification.

We had been promised by our programme an article by Miss Haughton; but she insisted upon withdrawing it. The next article on the programme was by Miss [Annie S.] Perot, and was called “A Sketch of the Classic Era of French Literature.” She spoke of the years from the beginning of the sixteenth century to the nineteenth one. She told of the reformation of French Literature by going back to Greek and Latin models; and of many things beneficial, and some things otherwise, in this

[39]

movement. Then of the disagreement of Nature, and of all things natural by some of the writers of this period. Also of the poet who calls attention to his own noble birth, in contrast to the fact that Horace was only a Irishman. She spoke of Pierre de Ronsard, and of his successors,--on to Madame de Sévigne and Molière, and their contemporaries and followers. Miss Perot went on to speak of seventeenth optimism. “We, she said, “Have not the self-satisfaction of our ancestors. But how we wish for [Edward] Bellamy’s second sight of one hundred years backward or forward.”[^Bellamy]

[^Bellamy] Bellamy's utopian novel _Looking Backward: 2000-1887_ was published in 1888.

It was announced that Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer’s last book “Russia and Turkey in the Nineteenth Century” had been presented to the Club by the author. Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller was requested to acknowledge the gift with our thanks.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)