---
title: 1894-06-01 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-06-01-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[79]

## Board of Management. June 1st, 1894.### 

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Friday afternoon, June 1st, 1894 at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. Ten members were present; the Second Vice President [Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton],--two Secretaries [Lydia Crane and Lily Tyson Manly], Treasurer, (Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock)--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann,--Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall,--Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early,--and Mrs. Manly.

The President, Miss Brent, sent a note, telling us that to her great regret, she was prevented by severe indisposition from giving us some short explanations regarding the business before us, and her views respecting it.

Mrs. Wrenshall read the Election Rules used in the late election by the Club; and noted a few changes necessary apparently to be made in acting upon them. She offered, and

[80]

explained, several amendments to the rules, for our consideration. She spoke of the question of signing nominations,--to which some objections have been made. Also on the point of giving time for a nominated candidate to withdraw her name before the day of the election,--if she wishes to do so.--Mrs. Wrenshall proposed a meeting for nominations,--which would not need to be over half an hour in length,--two weeks before the election. At this meeting nominating sheets should be distributed, filled, folded, and returned to the Chairman of the Committee on Nominations. The Committee should count these sheets, and post the names of the candidates receiving the highest and next to highest number of nomination votes, in the assembly room of the Club, one week before the election.

Also: that the Chairman of the Committee on Nominations shall be the Judge of Election.

That the Committee on Nominations shall consist of two members of the Board of Management and three from the ranks of the Club.

That candidates shall be immediately notified of their nominations.

[81]

After some discussion the Rules, as amended, were put to the vote, and carried by the Board of Management, to be submitted to the Club as among our proposed By Laws.

The question of a Committee on Hospitality to invite distinguished strangers and others to our meetings received informal discussion. Also, the question of limiting the number of members in the Club.--The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)