---
title: 1894-01-09 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-09-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[52]

## Board of Management. January 9th, 1894.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday, January 9th, 1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. Nine members attended this meeting,--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--Second Vice President [Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton],--two Sec-

[53]

retaries [Lydia Crane and Annie S. Perot],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann,--Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson,--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--and Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett.

The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of January 2nd.

The resignations from the Club of Mrs. [Rebecca] Griffin, Miss [Elizabeth] Adams, and Miss Cenas were presented to the Board. The resignation of Mrs. [Bertha Hall] Ahrens was also announced. Letters were also presented from the members whose resignations had been read on the previous Tuesday, declining to reconsider their action in resigning. The Corresponding Secretary was instructed to write to the ladies whose resignations had just been received, requesting their reconsideration also.

Miss [Sarah H.] Bennett asked leave to define her position with regard to the action that had been taken in the business of the Incorporation of the Club. She was, she said, decidedly and unalterably opposed to what had been done at the meeting of the Club on December 29th.

After some discussion on this subject, the President decided that it was out of order to delay our pro-

[54]

ceeding to the business for which this meeting had been called; namely: the filling of vacancies in the Board of Management.

The first matter in order was the filling of the vacant place caused by the resignation of Miss King as a member of the Board. The name of Mrs. [Li] Goddard was proposed, but it was said that she could not serve at present, having a sick child to claim her attention. The names of Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall and Mrs. [Lily Tyson] Manly were also suggested, but it was said that they had declined also to serve on the Board.

Mrs. Dammann nominated Miss Balch. Miss Haughton seconded the nomination; and it was carried immediately.

Miss Haughton nominated Mrs. [Rebecca Lloyd Nicholson] Shippen to fill the place of Miss Brown. Mrs. Dammann seconded the nomination and it received the same vote as the former one.

The election of a First Vice President was next in order. Mrs. Bullock nominated Mrs. Dammann for that office; Miss Brent seconded the nomination. Miss Grace nominated Mrs. Johnson. Miss Crane seconded the nomination. The two candidates not voting, Mrs. Johnson re-

[55]

ceived five votes,--and her election was announced.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)