---
title: 1894-03-27 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-27-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[90]

## 32nd Salon. March 27th, 1894.

The 32nd Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was held on Tuesday, March 27th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President called the meeting to order, and announced that the one reading of the afternoon would be of a paper by Miss [Ellen] Duvall, and that at the close of the reading, discussion would be in order. ALso that some time ago a prize had been offered by a magazine for the best article on one of Shakespear’s characters. The article of Miss Duvall “On the Character of Iago,” was adjudged the best of all offered in competition, and was adjudged the prize. Miss Duvall’s article was then read to us by Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann. It began with some appreciative remarks on Shakespear’s character and Shakespear’s work--the supreme work of the world up to the present time. Also on the personality impressed upon the work that we call Shakespearean; and on the privilege in this inquisitive rather than inquiring age of overcoming time and space and resting in the presence of the master spirit, sympathetic, complete and compelling. It went on to speak of the great subjective poems, Job, Hamlet, and Faust, in which the drama is within, on the stage of human consciousness. Then of the opening of the play of Othello, with the full, finished presentation of the character of Iago. We do not witness the gradual ruin or triumph of a soul, as in Macbeth or Hamlet. The questioning of life, in

[91]

which every human soul is exercised, for Iago lies behind him;--his philosophy, brief, simple, portable is identical with that of Satan in the book of Job. “Does Job fear God for naught?” Iago has considered, appreciated and rejected love and duty as inadequate and foolish, and we feel his terrible power for evil, moved by wounded self love and desire for revenge.

The comparison was drawn with Milton’s Satan, strange, wonderful; still in his fall--commanding human sympathy. Desdemona alone, we were told in his purity and simple love is Iago’s victim solely, never his tool or cheat. He has not even the common grace of honesty; and although his revenge is deadly unswerving and terrible, it is ignoble--with not even the small redemption of personal intrepidity. Yet, it was said such is Shakespeare’s consummate art, that this trickster coward and liar can not be despised. He has stupendous difficulties to overcome. As Hamlet is impelled to create a world of good, so Iago is impelled to create a world of dissonance, sin and death each out of the elements of his own nature,--and we with bated breath watch the process. Iago’s wickedness is fearfully free from weakness. Shakespeare it was said, seems not to have believed that wickedness is negative. Milton’s Satan, retains a sense of beauty and purity. Eden, we were reminded, is never lov[e]lier than when seen through the lost angel’s eyes. That over Iago’s soul no sense of beauty comes, there is no heaven nor hell to him--only the earthly daily life he is investing to his own purposes.

[92]

That he so far transcends in devilishness the Satan of Milton, as both Iago and Satan transcend in power and coherency of conception and scope of action, the Mephistopheles of Goethe. That Mephistopheles is consistent only in his mockery:--that he is constantly denying, and a spirit that denies is necessarily negative. But one mind, it is said before that of Shakespeare encountered the essence of evil, and gave us its likeness in one passing, blinding flash; but the feature hideousness and terror are never to be forgotten. That in literature, and art that likeness does not again appear till Shakespeare, with a like thought to that of the author of Job, set Iago completely before us. Miss Duvall was opposed to the idea that Iago was a young man, saying that there is no trace of lingering youthfulness about him. The effect of years of life and experience on good men and bad ones,--on Hamlet and Iago, on Lear and on Macbeth, and the likeness and the difference they show in fulfilling the self enacted condition of their being, were finely brought before us in this essay; and also the wonder and worth of what Shakespeare has revealed to us.

After the reading of Miss Duvall’s paper, an animated and appreciative discussion followed on the subjects treated in it, by Mrs. [Thomas S.] Morris, Mrs. [Susanna] Johnson, and others.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)