---
title: 1894-02-20 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-02-20-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## 102nd Meeting. February 30th, 1894.**

The 102nd meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, February 20th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of February 13th. The President said a few words with regard to the more than one hundred regular literary meetings of the Club, and the reports of them that had been read to us. She then gave us the pleasure of having read a letter from our former President Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, written in Rome, and addressed to the Club. Mrs. Turnbull sends to her dear friends of the Club, warm love, deep sympathy and strong hope for the future.

The meeting of this evening was under the direction of Miss Brent [Emma Fenwick] Brent, the Chairman of the Committee on the “Exact Study of the English

[65]

Language.” The first article of the programme was by Miss Brent herself, and was on “The Origin and Progress of Language.” She said that the most precious gift ever given man was called “The Word.” “In the beginning was the Word” etc. “In Him was Light, and the Light was the Life of man.” Miss Brent went on to speak of human speech,--the gift of man alone. Animals have their notes and cries; but not language except in the kind of imitative speech, which is obtained by the parrot. But even this is not what can be given by the child, or even by the idiot. The monkey has been called “the speechless man”; though we do now hear of a supposed simian language. But the monkey is the same hairy creature that ancient travellers have told us of; his nature may seem to walk on parallel lines with that of man,--but parallel lines never meet. The Chinese tell us of a tribe of ancient people in their country whose language is composed of the simplest possible sounds,--the name by which they call themselves seems scarcely to be pronounced at all. But the old Chaldeans reached a high degree of written speech, of poetry and legend. We were given the old Chaldean story of the seven spirits of evil,--neither male nor female, but fiends,--and the poetical conjurations that were addressed to them. Also, the Chaldean myth of the Sun and the Moon. In Ireland are found named brought from Phoenicia,--the name of Shamas [Seamus], for instance; and it has been said that the Basques in Spain, speak the language that they brought

[66]

from the plains of Shinar,--from the tower of Babel. Miss Brent spoke of the different accounts of the great confusion of tongues, of that of the Jews, that of the Chaldeans, etc., and of the substratum of fact to be found in all of them. She quoted from Ragotzin [Zenaide Ragozin], the description of the great Chaldean ruin,[^Ragozin] with its seven stages or stories, built of some different colors, the colors these early astronomers identified with the seven planets with which they were familiar. And this ruin is believed to contain the remains of the real tower of Babel. She reminded us that it has been suggested, that the origin of language may be found in the sounds of nature, and of animals. The mew or miaw--of the cat, gave the name of the animal in Egypt, and in Asia, and there are other instances of the same kind. She went on to tell of the observations made by M. [Hippolyte] Taine on the origin of speech in his own child,--a baby girl. He thought that the child begins with sounds as it it does with motions. When it first tries to turn its head, or to put out its hands, there is a vague twitter; then gutturals;--the vowels come before the consonants however. At twelve months there is speech; and then the gaining of new words. Observations of this kind were made by Darwin, on a little boy. Miss Brent spoke of the sounds that have come down through the ages, through Hebrew, Greek, German and Latin--to the English language, fitted for the genius of Shakespeare, and for the needs of daily life, for “whatever stirs the

[^Ragozin]: Zenaide A. Ragozin's _Chaldea: From the Earliest Times to the Rise of Assyria_ was published in 1887.

[67]

mortal frame.” The speech of the earliest known inhabitants of Great Britain is retained, like that of the Indian tribes of our own country, chiefly in geographical names; and perhaps, in a few words relating to their own common daily life and customs. All have gone to make the language of the King,--the King’s English.

Miss Brent read to us a beautiful little poem by an unknown author, called “The Winter Street,” or “The Milky Way in the Heavens.” It told of an old legend of the days of Odin and Thor; about two lovers, parted by the width of the heavens from each other; and of their building a bridge of light across the distance. And no power could compass the destruction of their work; for what Love had built Love himself would not destroy.

The next article of the programme was by Miss Maria [H.] Middleton, and was read by the Secretary [Lydia Crane]. It was on “Etymology and Pronunciation.” She spoke of Pronunciation as following Etymology, and called attention to the argument used against the advocates of the Phonetic system, that in dropping superfluous letters we may use sight of root-words, and of the wonderful history that belongs to them. Then to the curious guess that under strong emotion or in making unusual exertions with the muscles, we give forth sounds with our vocal chords. From these, she said, are born our interjections, which are sometimes whole sentences--almost volumes. But so much meaning

[68]

may be greatly owing to the modulation of the voice. Yet we spend hundreds of dollars on the art of singing, and lay no stress on the needful art of the modulation of the voice in speaking. And much of the happiness of daily life is bound up with the right use of the voice. Miss Middleton quoted Shakespeare’s description of Cordelia’s gentle and low voice; and Tennyson’s account of Cleopatra’s “lyre of widest range” that “glided through all change”; and noted the difference. Verse has been called a form of music, and poetry should have its full effect when read or recited aloud. She spoke of the power of words; and then of some words that in the centuries have become degraded in Meaning--while other have been ennobled. The word “Awfully,” meaning full of awe, of mingled fear and reverence, now sometimes means simply abhorrent, but is fast taking rank with the unemphatic “very” of every day life. But English Grammar is now far more of a science than ever before. It is not always poverty of feelings that leads to poverty of vocabulary, but want of culture. There was no poverty of language in the suggestion made to that unhappy foreigner, who in looking at picture, remarked: “What a flock of ships!” He was told that a flock of ships was called a fleet; that a fleet of sheep was called a flock; that a flock of girls was called a bevy; a bevy of wolves was called a pack; a pack of things was called a gang; a gang of angels was called a host; and so forth,

[69]

for a long page more. There are, our essayist admitted, some difficulty in the use of the English pronouns, and even by dignified writers. We are sometimes reminded of the hapless old woman,--a witness in a murder case,--who testified: “He’d a stick, and he’d a stick; and he beat he; and he beat he; and if he’d a beat he, as hard as he beat he,--he’d a killed he, and not he he.” In listening to a well bred, well read Englishman, and well bred, well read American, we are not conscious of any marked degeneracy in our countryman, but to be well bred and well read requires much effort. The common errors of pronunciation through spelling into confusion; and misspelling brings about changes in pronunciation.

Miss Middleton protested against the careless use of the word “like,” especially in making it do duty as a conjunction. She spoke of the believers in progress, who are too violent to distinguish between progress and mere change. “By all means,” she said, “let us have progress,--but not rapid transit.” That is not the order of the Universe, in which we must bear our part. We should saturate ourselves with the best literature, and associate with those who have already done so; and influence young people especially to do the same. We remember [Alexander] Pope’s advice,--as good now as ever before; “In words, as fashions, the same rule will hold, alike fantastic, if too new or old.”

<poetry>
“Be not the first by whom the new are tried,

[70]

Nor yet the last to lay the old aside.”
</poetry>

The next article of the programme was given by Mrs. Randolph [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer, and was made up of readings from two old specimens of the newspapers of Boston in the last century. They were “The Herald of Freedom” and “The Federal Advertiser”; and their dates were in April and May 1789. Mrs. Latimer spoke of the language used some sixty, or a hundred or more, years ago; as that in fashion in the present time. She said she sometimes wished, in reading a certain author, that a law might be enacted restraining him--or her--from using more than a certain number of adjectives on each page. She gave an account of a piece of impudence far beyond that usually accredited to the modern reporter, in the case of a Scotch clergyman who felt it to be his mission to go and preach to the Pope. The interview ended very creditably to the Pope, who was polite, and even contributed to the expense of the would-be adviser back to his own country--probably thinking him crazy.

In one of Mrs. Latimer’s old papers is an indignant letter to the editor from a person styling himself “A Customer,” telling of a proposed duel, in which the other party would not fight. There is also news of the Indian War, on the borders of North Carolina, describing a skirmish between forty white men and two hundred Indians, resulting in the relief of a besieged fort; without the certainty of any one having been killed on either side. In contrast to this, we were given the news sent to Prince Gallitzin, the Russian Ambassador, at Vienna,

[71]

giving an account of a Russian victory over the Turks, in which great slaughter is recorded,--”not counting those who were sabred in their houses.”

We were given a leading editorial on the approaching election for the first President of the United States, denouncing the actions of the opposers of the lately adopted Constitution against “the hero to whom even Britons do homage,” General Washington. This article says that the candidates proposed in opposition to Washington are not an Adams, nor a Hancock, but Patrick Henry, and Governor Clinton of New York. There is much local politics in these papers, also facetious old jokes from European publications. There are obituary “poems” worthy to rank with those encountered in our own daily newspapers. Also a laudatory notice of the first published American novel “The Power of Sympathy, Dedicated to the Young Ladies of America,--A bound book--price nine shillings,--I. Thomas and Company, Boston.”[^Brown] a jeweller advertises: “Very neat ladies’ and gentlemen’s watch-chains.”

[^Brown]: _The Power of Sympathy_was a gothic novel by Charles Brockden Brown.

The paper of April 10th, gives the latest news from Europe; thirty five days from Lisbon, direct; and forty seven days from London. A change in the British Ministry is announced as having taken place. The Prince of Wales having become Regent of the Kingdom, Mr. Pitt had resigned his office, and Mr. Foy had become Prime Minister. The death of Charles the Third, King of Spain, is announced. And the prospects are said to be gloomy for the presentation of peace, in this first half of the year of Grace 1789.

[72]

Miss Mary Davis informed us that she had a copy of the first American novel “The Power of Sympathy” in her own library. Also that she had an electoral ticket for one of our early Presidential contests.

The next article on our programme was by Miss Mabel Carter, and was on “The Emotional Element in Chaucer’s Poetry.” She spoke of the emotional element as indispensable to the poet. Then of Chaucer’s ideas and figures, of his subjective quality of his ear that heard the birds, and of his spirit that felt the charm of nature, of the romance and chivalry and the religion he pictures for us; of what he has felt, and has told us of love, of suffering and merriment. Miss Carter went on to give us a very appreciative review of the different works of Chaucer; and of the characteristic beauty and charm of each of them. She said he passed over tenderly the faults of his heroines, and dwelt on all of the true womanliness in them. He was no misanthrope,--the justice and gentle charity of his work has given him immortality.

The last article on our programme was by Mrs. Henry C. Evans, and was called “What’s in a Name?” She spoke of the spirit of investigation rife in the present day; of the Helen’s babies, who are not content “to see the wheels go round,” but “want” themselves to open and shut all the things they see,--and who ask not only “Why?” but How? And When? And Wherefore? also.

The word girl has been derived from garrulous;

[73]

but if loquacity is its meaning, the word girl might belong to either sex. Perhaps the true apple of discord grew in the Garden of Eden. Mrs. Evans spoke of the time-honored expression of discontent over the name of the Western Continent, as America, instead of Columbia. She quoted an ingenious writer who attempts to prove that our side of the world was not named after Americus Vespucius at all; that he himself was named Alberico; and that the name America has an entirely native origin, and means “the windy country.” It follows then, that Alberico Vespucci received the name Americus after he had visited and written about “the windy country,” in something like the way in which “Chinese Gordon” became the designation of a hero of our own time, after his adventure in China.[^Gordon]

[^Gordon]: Charles George Gordon (1833-1885)was a British Army officer who served in a variety of theaters of the British Empire, including Crimea, China, and the Sudan. He derived the nickname "Chinese Gordon" as a result of his role in suppressing the Taiping rebels in the 1860s during the Taiping Civil War.

Other names, geographical, historical and personal, Christian and family names were discussed for us with interest, ingenuity, and suggestiveness. Mrs. Evans told the story of a German “gentleman” who was said to come to this country in the last century, rejoicing in the name of Feuerstein. His neighbor informed him that this was Flint in English, the good foreigner translated it, and was known as Flint. After a migration to another part of the country, other neighbors, taking the name to have an additional “e,” informed the son of the house that “Flinte” in German was musket in English, and the obliging young man called himself Musket. Musket being not

[74]

considered euphonious however, it was changed to Gunn. But in the next generation strong objections were found to the name Gunn, and it was altered to John. Still another generation made this Johnson, and we were told the second Johnson was named Andrew, and is known to history as Andrew Johnson, seventeenth President of the United States.

The programme being finished, an invitation was read to a Lecture by the Dean of Swart[h]more College.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)