---
title: 1894-02-27 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-02-27-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[63]

## Board of Management. February 27th, 1894.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday, February 27th, 1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. Ten members attended this meeting,--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--two Vice Presidents [Mrs. W. Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson and Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton], Recording Secretary [Lily Tyson Manly],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--Miss [Grace] Balch,--Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early,--and Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall.

The question of increasing the membership of the Club at this time was discussed; and the names of several ladies were mentioned as likely to be proposed to us.

The question arose whether we shall, after our act of Incorporation goes into effect, vote in new

[64]

members at any time before the first Tuesday in May,--the regular time for such elections.

The time when the act of Incorporation will go into effect being still uncertain, some of the members of the Board thought it would be not just to the Club, nor to any proposed new members, to appoint an apparently irregular election at the present time. It was also said that an election now might show an undue anxiety to fill vacancies, and put our Club in an undignified position. On the other hand it was urged that we might miss the opportunity of gaining valuable new members; who might in the mean time be induced to join other associations instead of our own.

The treasurer was asked if there was likely to be any pressing need for the dues of new members. She said she did not think there was any such need at the present.

Miss Balch moved: That we shall have no election of new members before the first Tuesday in May,--the regular day for that election. Mrs. Johnson seconded the motion, and it was carried:--five votes

[65]

to three; two members refraining from voting.

Mrs. Johnson proposed to amend the By Laws of our Club so as to make it necessary that all names of proposed new members shall be sent to the Board of Management a month before the day for their election. Discussion of this question followed. Also on that of the advisability or non-advisability of continuing to allow the members of the Board of Management to propose the names of new members.

It was decided to defer Mrs. Johnson's resolution--on giving a month's notice of the names of new members before their election--until the next meeting of the Board.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)