---
title: 1894-01-23 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-23-salon.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[47]

## 30th Salon. January 23rd, 1894.

The 30th Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 23rd, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets;--under the direction of the Committee on Unwritten History. The Maryland Society of the Colonial Dames had been invited to be present, and a number of its members had

[48]

accepted the imitation. Some other guests were also present on the occasion, among them Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Davies, the mathematician. The President, Miss Brent [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order.

The first article on our programme was by Mrs. [Clara B. Newman] Turner, and was on “Unwritten History.” Mrs. Turner spoke of the different departments of study in our Club. Passing by most of them, she led her audience to one door; of which she lifted the drapery, and invited them to enter, the department of Unwritten History. The work of the department naturally divides itself into the consideration of the history of the Past, the Present and the Future,--the Future which belongs, or will belong to all of us. She told us of many distinguished people, who are not professional historians, but who live and unconsciously write the history of their own time, and influence that of the times to come. She spoke of many persons whom she had met;--of Mr. Stone and Mr. Beecher, of Mrs. Kendall and Mrs. Whitney, and Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett. Also of Miss Clara Barton, whom she called the Joan of Arc of the nineteenth century. Mrs. Turner went on to speak of the achievements of the nineteenth century, in Science and Art, and still more in seeking and saving that which was lost.

She spoke of the grand future that will belong not only to our successors, but to us also, prophetically and spiritually,--intellectually and really.

The next article on the programme was by

[49]

Miss Kate Mason [Katherine Mason Rust] Rowland, and was read by Miss [Mary F.] Grace. It was on Robert Carter of Virginia, a grandson of the once famous King Carter. King Carter’s name was Robert also, but he was a king in his large possessions, among his neighbors, tenants and servants in the early part of the eighteenth century. The Robert Carter of Miss Rowland’s essay, was a King’s Councillor under George the Second and George the Third, the friend of Lord Botetourte, a pure statesman and patriot, distinguished in public and private life in Virginia and Maryland, and in the mother country also. We were given some accounts of social and polite life at the county seats and in the towns of Maryland and Virginia; also of the theatrical entertainments of the time, especially of one at which the so-called emperor and empires of the Cherokees were present,--and seemed to enjoy it. We were told of public events during the War with France, and afterwards. Then of Mr. Carter’s love and appreciation of Music, of his importing furniture, and especially books from London. Then of his high abilities, and of the love and affectionate respect he gained through life.

The next article read to us was by Mrs. Clarence Cottman, and was A Dialect story, called “Shades of my Ancestors.” She described one of those old colonial mansions, of which a few still survive among us--one built in the year 1720, by the son of an English nobleman, and after English Models. Here on a modern Christmas Eve, in a

[50]

pause of the merry making, a party of children gathered around a fire, welcome the coming of an old colored Mammy as an honored guest. The old colored mammy seems sometimes old by position, but this one says she is ninety years old, and has seen five generations of the family she serves. When the children clamor for a story, she tells them one, a ghost story, not without a meaning, in which spirits move slowly, through moonlight, over snow-covered ground to execute the will of the dead upon the living. All of it she assures them, is “the blessed truth,” as perhaps it was to her.

The next article given us was by Miss M. A. Minor [Mary W. Minor], and was on “The Pages of Rosewell,” in Virginia. Miss Minor described the old mansion of Rosewell in Gloucester County, Virginia, still standing, but not in its former splendor; built by Mann Page, early in the eighteenth century. There every brick was English, it is said, and the wood for the carved wainscotting and stairways was brought from Madeira. The roof was covered with lead, but this it has been said was taken off to make bullets during the Revolutionary War. Some of the anecdotes, letters, and even of the epitaphs quotes in the essay, were full of the inimitable flavor of the wit and humor of the olden time. It is a little surprising now, to be told in a letter from New York, written by Mr. John Page to his son, with the date of March 1789,--that New York is not half so large as Philadelphia, nor

[51]

in any manner to be compared to it for beauty and elegance. Miss Minor’s account of the Pages of Virginia, made us feel that we had been shown some of the pages of a very interesting book,--of the annals of our own neighbors and friends for more than more than [words repeated in original] two centuries.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. Gaston Manly [Lily Tyson Manly Elliott], and was called “Sketches of Colonial Maryland.” Mrs. Manly told us of the letters, written in Latin, by Father White, the priest who came to Maryland with Lord Baltimore. They were discovered in Rome by Father McSherry, translated, and brought to this country. They give the authentic story of the planting of our own Colonial tree. We were further told of those who first took shelter under its branches, and from the private letters and traditions, was pictured to us the life of our own people in the good old Colony times. We were told of a trial for the crime of witchcraft,--at St. Mary’s, our old capital, in the year 1674, in which the accused man was condemned to die, according to the custom of the times. But the lower House of the Maryland Assembly--not altogether according to the custom of the times,--made a petition to the higher powers, that his life might be saved, on his promise never to practice witchcraft again. It was pleasant to hear that this petition met with a favorable response and action.

Mrs. Manly then gave us extracts from the letters of men and women among the Colonial residents of our own state, which sustained the traditions of the

[52]

excellence of their epistolary correspondence.

Our President exhibited a brick from the old State house at St. Mary’s--the old capital of Maryland, now in ruins.

She then invited all the company to take tea, congratulating us that we had enjoyed the memories of our Colonial history, without the contemplation of the Boston Tea Party, nor of that of the Peggy Stewart at Annapolis.

The meeting adjourned for tea and conversation.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)