---
title: 1894-03-30 Special Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-30-special.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
## MS 988, Box 3 (Book dated Dec. 26, 1893- June 9, 1894)

[93]

## Special Meeting. March 30th, 1894.

A special meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore, was called to meet on Friday afternoon, March 30th, 1894. It was to consider the adoption of a Constitution; the admission of new members; and other business before the Club.

Probably owing to an unaccountable failure in the reception of notices, the attendance was so small that it was decided, after some delay, to postpone the proposal business to another meeting. The President took the opportunity of reading to those present, the documents she had received regarding the “Federation of Women’s Clubs of America,” which association our Club had been invited to join. This invitation had been accepted by the Board of Directors. A resolution passed by the Board of Management or Directors, making suggestions to the Club with regard to the voting in of new members, was read to the members present.

Some discussion, and suggestions by members with regard to our action on various subjects; some expressions of opinion; and informal votes occupied the time of the meeting. The President announced that another special meeting of the Club would be held on the following Thursday, April 5th, at 3 p.m.

The assembly adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)