---
title: 1894-03-06 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-06-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[65]

## Board of Management. March 6th, 1894.

The Board of Management of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore met on Tuesday, March 6th, 1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets. Nine members attended this meeting:--the President [Emma Fenwick Brent],--Second Vice President [Louisa Courtauld Osburne Haughton],--Recording

[66]

Secretary [Lydia Crane],--Treasurer [Caroline Canfield Bullock],--Miss [Mary F.] Grace,--Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord,--Miss [Grace] Balch,--Mrs. [Maud Graham] Early,--and Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall.

The President announced that we had met expecting to consider Mrs. Johnson's resolution, proposed at the meeting of February 27th, with regard to the sending to the Board of Management the names of proposed new members of the Club a month before the day appointed to the voting upon such names. The question had arisen whether this resolution should become a part of our Constitution?--or should be added to our By Laws? The impression had been received that Mrs. Johnson intended to take legal advise on this subject.

To our regret, it was announced that Mrs. Johnson had been suddenly called out of town; and consequently could not again present her resolution at this meeting, nor give us the result of her enquiries respecting its proper place--if carried--among the rules of the Club.

Some discussion was held on this subject; and on kindred questions,--especially on the advisabili-

[67]

ty of our new members being proposed, or not proposed, by members of the Board of Management. It was suggested that each member of the Club should have the right to propose one, and only one, new name for membership in each year.

It was finally proposed that, as the time for the election was drawing near, the President should, in the full meeting of the Club about to be held, give a recommendation or request to the Club to send in the names of proposed new members to the Board one month before the day fixed for acting on these names. To this the Board agreed.

Miss Haughton then asked leave from the Board to send back to its owners the piano which had been rented for our musical evenings. To this the Board agreed also.

The President said a few words of thanks to Miss Haughton for her important part in the success of our musical entertainments.

The meeting adjourned.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)