---
title: 1894-03-27 Board of Management Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-03-27-BOM.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[68]

## Director's Meeting. March 27th, 1894.

The full Board of Directors--under the new Incorporation--of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore,--being the twelve members of the Board of Management under the old Constitution of the Club,--met on Tuesday Morning, March 27th,1894, at the corner of Cathedral and Franklin Streets.

Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent the Chairman called the meeting to order.

The Chairman laid before the Board a proposition to join the Federation of Woman's Clubs of America. She read a letter from Mrs. Emerson Brown of New Jersey, the President of the Federation, and also a printed circular giving the conditions of joining, and the advantages of belonging to the Federation. It was moved and seconded that the Club should join the Federation, and the motion was carried without opposition. Miss Brent agreed to write to Mrs. Brown on this subject without delay.

The subject of the late Incorporation of the Club being in order, our own copy of the Act of Incorporation, only signed and attested, was laid before us; and

[69]

was read to us by the Treasurer. She also laid before us the note of Mr. Trippe, the lawyer whose advice had been taken in this matter, and his bill of $10.00;--also another little bill for attendant expenses of $8.50.

Our attention was then called to the facts,--that our Club was now legally without officers,--that we, the Directors, were simply a Committee, with Miss Brent as our Chairman, her name being the first on the list of Directors.--Some conversation followed on the right to resign as Directors, or as individuals,--of engaging to resign next May, or of holding office until our successors are appointed.

Some time was given to the subject of voting into the Club those of its members who are not in the list of the forty Incorporators, and to the suggestion of voting in others as desirable new members, at the same time; which caused discussion.

The proposition being made to proceed to the election of officers, Mrs. Dammann moved that we re-instate the entire Administration holding office at the time the Incorpora-

[70]

tion went into effect,--without change. Mrs. Manly seconded this motion; and it was carried, by a standing vote.[^cranenote3]

[^cranenote3]: A footnote at the bottom of the page reads, "The effect of this vote was to re-instate until the annual election in May: Miss Brent, President,--Mrs. Johnson First Vice President,--Secretaries, Miss Crane and Mrs. Manly,--Treasurer, Mrs. Bullock; Committee, Mesdames Dammann, Lord, Early, Wrenshall; Misses Balch and Grace. L.C.--Secretary."

The question then arose of a meeting of the Club to adopt a Constitution, and to transact other important business. As it was considered not advisable to displace a literary meeting for business, it was finally decided that this meeting should be held on Friday the 30th of March, at 4 P.M.

The question of proposing Amendments to the Constitution was then discussed. Three points of alteration were unanimously approved by the Board of Management. First: That the Quorum of the Board of Managers shall be seven members, instead of four. Second: That the Quorum of the Club shall be a legal majority,--or two more than one half of the members. Third: That the names of new members

[71]

shall have a proposer, and two seconders, and shall be proposed by a member of one year's standing. Also, that names should be considered at least one week before being voted upon.

Mrs. Johnson then offered a resolution--to go before the Club,--which, after discussion, was amended by Mrs. Bullock in the change of the word "recommend" to "suggest." Mrs. Johnson accepted the Amendment, and her resolution then read:

"That the Board of Management suggest to the Club that the election of new members shall be left to the Board, as before; and that the proposed names shall be sent to the Board on or before the first meeting in April, that the Board may have one week for the consideration of these names. Or, if the Club at large shall desire to vote upon the names of new members, that the proposed names shall be posted in the Committee room, one week before the election shall take place."

Miss Haughton objected to this resolution, and moved an amendment: "That we shall not give our opinion on this subject unless it is asked." Then amendment was

[72]

seconded by Mrs. Manly, voted upon, and defeated. Some discussion arose whether, after a vote of the Board of Management, the minority had a right to make a report to the Club--or not?--or whether the Board always appears before the Club as a unit.

Finally Mrs. Johnson's resolution was seconded by Mrs. Early; and carried, by seven votes in favor to five against it.--The meeting adjourned.

Not Read to Board.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)