---
title: 1894-05-01 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-05-01-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[126]

## 109th Meeting. May 1st 1894.

The 109th meeting of the Woman's Literary Club of

[127]

Baltimore was held on Tuesday, May 1st, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. This was a business meeting at which the reports of Committees were in order. The President called the meeting to order; and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of two former meetings;--that of the special business meeting of April 5th, and that of the literary meeting of April 24th. The announcement was made that nineteen new members of the Club had been elected by the Board of Management. The Recording Secretary then read the names of new members.

The President asked for the Report of the Chairman of the Committee on translations. Miss [Mary F.] Grace answered that there was but little to report. We were however reminded of the excellent papers her Committee gave to the Club at their meeting which took place the 14th of last November. We were then entertained with translations by Miss Volk [Annie C. Volck], Mrs. [Elizabeth Wormeley] Latimer, Miss [Fannie] Minor, Miss [Jenny] Nelson, and an original article by Miss Grace herself. “On translations.” The President said that the Chairman of the Committee on Ancient and Mediaeval Poetry was unavoidably absent, and could not of course give us a Report.

The Chairman of the Committee on Modern Poetry, Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, was next called upon. She spoke of the two programmes prepared by her Committee. The first was given us on December 19th, 1893. On this occasion poems were given by Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud and Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter, a paper by Miss Reese herself on Louise Imogen Guiney and a Dramatic poem by Miss [Louise] Malloy. The

[128]

second meeting of this Committee was given on March 13th, at which were read poems by Mrs. Easter and Miss [Grace Denio] Litchfield, a Selection by Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock, an article on Sidney Lanier by Miss Imogen George, and an article by Miss Reese on “Poetry as a means of Education."

The Chairman of the Committee on Essays and the Essayists, Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord, reported that her Committee had given us one meeting on the 2nd of January 1894, at which a paper was read by Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller on George William Curtis, and one by Mrs. Lord herself on Thomas Carlyle, followed by a discussion on Carlyle and his Works. Mrs. Lord told us that her Committee had proposed to hold meetings to read the Works of Carlyle, but that these meetings had not been regularly attended.

The Chairman of the Committee on Fiction [Martha Lee Jenkins] reported that she had only held her position since February 8th 1894. Since then, her Committee had been meeting once a week for discussion and for the presentation of original work. She had given the programme of one meeting, that of April 3rd; at which five papers were presented. These were: A Story by Mrs. Lord, two short stories by Miss Virginia Cloud, a translation by Mrs. Frederick [Florence McIntyre] Tyson, and a Review of English Literature by Mrs. Jenkins herself.

The Chairman of the Committee on Unwritten History reported that her Committee had held meetings for study; and had conducted two meetings of the Club. At the first of these meetings on January 23rd, a

[129]

delegation from the society of the Colonial Dames was with us by invitation of the Club. Articles were given by Mrs. Sidney [Clara B. Newman] Turner, Miss Kate Mason [Rust] Rowland. Miss M. W. [Mary W.] Minor, Mrs. Clarence Cottman and Mrs. Gaston [Lily Tyson] Manly. At the second meeting of this Committee on April 10th, articles were presented by Miss [Mary Dorsey] Davis, Mrs. Miller, Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock and Mrs. Manly.

The Chairman of the Committee on Education, Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock, reminded us that she had accepted her position from which Miss Bond had retired had retired, on the 1st of February, giving up more tempting works to take up this one. She spoke of the work already done by this Committee; of the papers on Education, North and South, American and European, ante and post bellum given by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], Mrs. [Mary Noyes] Colvin, Mademoiselle Mellé and others; also of the discussion on Kindergartens, on early and later Education in Maryland, and on College and University training. She spoke also of the work proposed to be done by this Committee in the future. There have been this year two meetings conducted by the Committee on Education; those of November 28th, and ofg April 17th. In the latter one, articles were given by Mrs. Bullock, Miss [Mary G.] Welles and Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Davis.

The Chairman of the Committee on Modern Philanthropy did not present a Report on this evening. The Chairman of the Committee on Art, Miss [Lucy] Comins spoke of having accepted her position under protest last February, but gave us as interesting statement of the work done, and proposed to be done by her Committee.

[130]

This Committee is appointed to have charge of the meeting of the 8th of May. The Chairman of the Committee on the Authors and Artists of Maryland was not present.

The Chairman of the Committee on Studies in Archaeology, Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall, next made her Report. She was appointed to this position in May 1893. She then requested the Committee to meet at her house, and seven members responded to the call, and agreed to meet for study fortnightly after October 1st, and to study their subject generally. They had made use of the Peabody Library, of the Reports of the United States Ethnological Society, of the Congressional Library, and of the works of Isaac Taylor and other authorities on this line of studies. They had this year given the Club two meetings; the first on April the 10th, devoted to the Archaeology of India, a great and comprehensive subject discussed and illustrated by the Chairman. The second meeting was on April 24th, at which articles were given by Miss Rust, Mrs. Early and Mrs. Sloan. Mrs. Wrenshall hopes to arouse a little more general interest and enthusiasm in Archaeology than has hitherto been shown in our Club. She spoke of the comprehensiveness of the study of Archaeology, of the opportunities given by it for gaining knowledge in History, Science, Art and Religion, of bringing before us the beauty and work of Greece and Rome,--and of the far away Orient. Also of unravelling the unknown past of America, and of

[131]

reading everywhere in ancient mounds and rude dolmens and Cyclopean piles as well as in beautiful temples and monuments the progress of the human race. And of scaling the heights inviting us, and entering the palaces where portals are open before us.

The Committee on Current Criticism under the Chairmanship of Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann had given this year two meetings to the Club, on October 17th, 1895, and on March 6th, 1894.

The Chairman of the Committee on the Exact Study of the English Language, Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, said that she regretted the many interruptions in the work of this Committee which our former President Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull, had wished might continue its usefulness, and which she herself hoped might next year be more successful than during this season. This Committee had given one meeting at which papers were presented by Miss [Maria H.] Middleton, Mrs. Latimer, Miss [Sally K.] Carter, Mrs. [Henry C.] Evans and the Chairman herself. Miss Brent also spoke of the language and of the importance of preserving etymology in order to understand the history of words. She spoke of words as keeping us in touch with human nature in former times, like the phonograph, they give us messages from other times and places, they preserve the teaching of Science, and lead us to noble ends in the future.

The President then spoke of the approaching election for officers of the Club, and said that a plan had been adopted by the Board of Management for this election which seemed to promises quiet and

[132]

successful voting. It is in accordance with the scheme proposed by the Ministry of the Committee on Amendments of last Fall. A Committee of the members have been appointed to receive and classify nominations. She announced the names of Mrs. Wiley, Mrs. Wrenshall, Mrs. Carter, Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton and Miss [Virginia Woodward] Cloud. Miss Haughton and Miss Cloud declining to serve, and Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese and Miss [Leonora] Griffith who were requested to vacant positions, declining also, Mrs. [Li] Goddard and Mrs. [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock were appointed members of this Committee, which finally stood, Mrs. Wiley, Mrs. Wrenshall, Mrs. Carter, Mrs. Whitelock and Mrs. Goddard. Printed slips containing lists of the offices to be filled will be sent to every voting member of the Club, on which each one is to write the name of her choice for each office, and send it to the Recording Secretary, before the 14th of May. The Secretary is to send these slips to the Committee on Nominations at the Club rooms. The Committee are to have a meeting on the 15th of May, at 11 a.m. to count the number of votes received by each candidate. The names of the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for each office, shall be posted in the Club room one week before the election.

The President also spoke of the Federation of Clubs, and of their approaching meeting in Philadelphia on the 9th, 10th, and 11th of May. She said that Mrs. Wrenshall as the Chairman of correspondence for the state of Maryland, Mrs.

[133]

[Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord as a delegate, and Mrs. [Caroline Canfield] Bullock in place of our presiding officer will represent our Club at this meeting. She spoke of the reduced Railway fare in connection with this meeting. After a few questions and answers the meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)