---
title: 1894-05-15 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-05-15-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[140]

## 111th Meeting. May 15th, 1894.

The 111th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, May 15th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting of May 8th. This meeting was under the direction of Mrs. [Aileen B. C.] Dammann, the Chairman of the Committee on Current Criticism. It was however announced by the President, that our programme would be shortened as we expected to be favored with an address from Mrs. Hensotin of Chicago, the President of the Federation of Women’s Clubs of America. Delegates from the Arundel Club, the Colonial Dames, the Daughters of the Revolution, the Myrtle Club and other associations had been invited to be present with us this afternoon, and the invitations had been generally accepted. The first article on our

[141]

programme was the only one read to us. This article was called “Eddies and Currents” and was written by Miss [Ellen] Duvall, and read by Mrs. Dammann. Miss Duvall recalled to the request made some time ago, by a literary Journal for lists of the 100 best books, or rather for the books considered best to be read by all the readers who chose to answer the invitation. The answers were not without interest, and some were amusing. But, it was suggested that lists might also be formed of books it would be best not to read, and best of all not to write. She went on to speak of the dreary style of books which, just now we may hope an eddy, and not a current in the stream of our modern literature. They are not altogether bad writing, though pessimistic, and deficient in the sense of humor. Miss Duvall spoke of “Ships that Pass in the Night,” and of the still drearier writings of Olive Schreiner, and others like her.[^Ships] We are not obliged to believe our nights so dark, nor our lives so hopeless as these authors paint them.

[^Ships]: _Ships that Pass in the Night_ (1894) was written by Beatrice Harraden (1864-1936) and centered on the doomed and unconsummated love between two tuberculosis patients. Writer and intellectual Olive Schreiner (1855-1920) was born in South Africa but lived much of her life in Europe; her best-known novel, _The Story of an African Farm_, was published in 1883.

Miss Duvall criticized the “Ships that Pass in the Night,” especially the hero, who took 26 years to learn how to smile; and who gave himself liberty to be selfish every day, because he had made the one great sacrifice,--the sacrifice of not killing himself, while his mother continued to live. But he wrote a very good love letter; and then tore it up instead of sending it, thereby making the greatest possible mistake. As for the heroine, we were reminded that the small plain heroine, who is fascinating to the Disagreeable Man,

[142]

has held her place in Literature ever since Jane Eyre was created. Miss Duvall turned evidently with great pleasure to speak of the work of Robert Louis Stevenson, “Kidnapped” and “David Balfour.” She reminded us of the charm to be found in Scotch character, like that which belongs to Scotch history and Scotch romance, all of which has been well portrayed by Scotch writers of fiction. She went over the stories of Allan Breck and David Balfour, which she said, tell us of enduring friendship and ennobling love. The moral is not clapped on, but is in the whole atmosphere surrounding them. Such stories have formed a current, not an eddy, in our literature; and we can trust its depth and direction.

At the close of Miss Duvall’s article, the President introduced to us Mrs. Charles Hensotin of Chicago, the President of the Federation of Women’s Clubs in America. Mrs. Hensotin spoke to us of the influence of Women’s Clubs as a factor in the civilization of the present day;--of the benefit, and of the possible danger that may proceed from them. She spoke of the changes wrought by modern conditions of life. There being less government than in former years,--much less of the reign of force, there is all the greater need for self-government and for co-operation in right things. In former days the co-operation of women was, almost entirely by means of the religious idea, in the missionary society, and kindred associations. The Civil War banded women together to work for the soldiers; and later on for their widows and orphans.

[143]

Later still came the great movement for Women’s Clubs, and it is impossible to estimate its future. Women’s Clubs are for a purpose, or a cause; and in this they differ from the Clubs of men. We have our beautiful homes and men have helped us to make them. We do not desire to interfere with the home, but we have outside of it also, the power to create an educated, enlightened public opinion, a saving and regenerating power in the centres of civilization. In this cause there should be a bond of union for women. Mrs. Hensotin spoke of the Women’s Clubs of Chicago; of the efforts made to prevent crystallization; and, without distinction of classes to make a sisterhood to work for humanity and righteousness. She told us that at the close of the World’s Fair, when the desirable visitors had left Chicago, the cranks and tramps and friendless people remained. The city had done a beautiful thing for the whole world;--and was in danger of doing a barbarous thing in dealing or failing to deal with these unfortunates left within her borders.

Dr. Stevenson, the President of the Woman’s Club called upon all the associations of women in the city,--the Roman Catholic, Protestant and Hebrew, the religious, social, educational, and other societies, and asked their help. They all responded and all took care of the women and children thrown upon them. They offered a hot lunch and 50 cents a day to all women who would work, established their agencies in different parts of the city to save

[144]

car-fares, and fed the army of women and children through the winter, at the cost of $13.000,--not by alms-giving but by wages. Mrs. Hensotin thought it not too little to say that this work had saved the city from anarchy. She spoke of having heard Cardinal [James] Gibbons read at the Congress of Religions, a paper on “What the Catholic Church has done for the needs of Humanity,” and of having been especially impressed with what Catholic women have done for the needs of humanity. Women she said do not formulate creeds, that has never been their work, but they have done and do carry out Christ’s command to clothe the naked and feed the hungry. Mrs. Hensotin answered readily and pleasantly such questions as were addressed to her. She spoke of over-organization as a thing to be avoided. She enumerated the advantages of State and city Federations, but suggested that such alliances should not be formed hastily, nor incautiously. She thought that the great subjects which interest us in our Club work ought to be discussed intelligently in the homes also. That such discussion would counteract the danger of over organization, and cause the influence of the home to be unceasingly felt and appreciated.

At the close of Mrs. Hensotin’s interesting address, the President spoke of the formation of the Woman’s University Club in Baltimore. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham spoke of an entertainment of the Lend a Hand Club of Mt. Washington, to which the members of

[145]

the Women’s Literary Club were invited. Refreshments and social conversation followed the informal adjournment of the meeting.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 




[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)