---
title: 1894-02-13 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-02-13-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[56]

## 101st Meeting. February 13th, 1894.

The 101st meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, February 13th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral Streets. It was under the direction of Mrs. Gaston [Lily Tyson] Manly, Chairman of the Committee on Authors and Artists of Maryland. Miss [Emma Fenwick] Brent, the President, called the Club to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the meeting of February 6th. The President announced that the vacancy in the office of Corresponding Secretary had been filled by the election of Mrs. Gaston Manly to that position, and that members who desired invitations for their friends, should apply to Mrs. Manly for them.

Before beginning the exercises of the programme, the President announced that we had present with us Mrs. Richardson, who as Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey, was we all knew, one of the earliest proposers and founders of our Woman’s Literary Club, and was our first Vice President. Mrs. Richardson said a few words of greeting to her fellow members. She spoke of the pleasure in finding us with our enlarged membership and widened influence, working under the same name and with the same definite purposes, with which we began our existence

[57]

as a Club nearly four years ago. She spoke of some other Woman’s Club[s], especially of the Sorosis of New York,--which is, however, not strictly literary. It grew she said, out of the feeling aroused by the refusal to admit women, however distinguished, to a dinner given to Charles Dickens, when he was in New York. Upon this, Jennie June and Fanny Fern and others concluded that the women of New York ought to have a Club of their own, in our time. The Brooklyn Woman's Club was, she told us, really a literary club, though it is by no means a narrow or limited one in its aim or management. It has been said of this Brooklyn Club, that a mother who wishes her daughter to join it, ought to give in the name of her child as soon as it is born, and perhaps, when the infant becomes a woman, there may be a vacancy ready in her admission to membership.

Mrs. Richardson said that she believed that we would go on with no limited aims, but with broad culture taking in all great subjects and still remaining a Woman's Literary Club. She had heard of the formation of another association by some of the former members of our own Club, whose work may be on somewhat different lines from ours.[^Arundell] Of course there is regret in parting company, but there need be no rivalry, nor anything but good feeling between the two bodies. We know that the Sorosis and the Nineteenth Century Club are very different from each other, but that does not prevent the holding of membership in both of them at the same time. She could hope, she said that both of the Baltimore Woman's Literary Clubs might continue and succeed.

[^Arundell]: The Arundell Club was formed in early 1894, possibly organized by Mrs. William Woolsey [Susanna] Johnson. Their constitution seems largely based on the WLCB's. See this [blog post] (https://thelifeofanangloamerican.blogspot.com/2021/03/clubbical-baltimore-of-days-gone-by.html?showComment=1650894462885#c1188529904321056430).

[58]

The first article on our programme was by Miss Louise Malloy, and was called: "Three Generations of Maryland Genius." She spoke of the great names in literature, art, and history which belong to our own city of Baltimore, especially of those great names belonging to the Drama, and of these, Baltimore perhaps owns more than any other American city. She went on to speak of the Booth family who have been in some sort identified with this city ever since Junius Brutus Booth came over from England, and lived in Exeter Street, and afterwards in High street in what we call Old Town. They were a Spanish Family, who in England, had translated their names into English. They were eccentric, but genius often is so--somewhat melancholy, shy and retiring--of the stage. One sister named Rosalie carried the hereditary reserve to such an extreme degree, that her neighbor doubted her actual existence. The elder Booth was erratic to the point of insanity. He loved animals--an admirable trait certainly, and once while living in Harford county, he invited his neighbors in due form to a funeral, which they were surprised to discover was that of a favorite horse. Though he set a high value on animal life of every kind, and cautioned his children against cruelty more than anything else perhaps, he is known in the excitement of acting to have pursued a fellow actor over the stage with a drawn sword.

Miss Malloy spoke of the early struggles of Edwin Booth for success in his profession, of his want of ease and apparent want of fitness when

[59]

he first appeared on the stage.--of Edwin Forrest's telling the elder Booth that his son Edwin would never make an actor; it would be better to put him to learn a good trade, which has a strange sound now. She spoke of the early friendship of John Sleeper Clark[e], who was a sort of good genius to Booth, before and after he became his brother-in-law. To Mrs. Clark--Asia Booth,--who was educated at Carmelite Convent in this city, Miss Malloy gave credit for possessing in full measure the family genius, and in too full measure the family melancholy.

After that tragedy which overshadowed our whole nation,[^Booth] Edwin Booth would never consent to play in Washington, and Mrs. Clark[e], though she brought up her children as Americans, would never again consent to live in America. Edwin Booth was in Boston at the time of his brother's insane act, and though he had voted for President Lincoln, was only saved from arrest by strong political influence. Our own essayist went on to tell how Edwin Booth courted his first wife in a boarding house in Fayette street, where afterwards stood the Post Office. He became engaged the second time also in Baltimore, after he had been accidentally hurt by another actor on the stage. The only time he was ever known to have dropped into poetry as a friend--like or rather unlike, Mr. Wagg, was in some lines to Miss Martha Ford concerning her little blue shoes and her big blue eyes, in pleasanter and kinder verse than most of such poems own. Miss Malloy went on to speak of the histrionic ability of

[^Booth]: Molloy is referring to the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by John Wilkes Booth, Edwin’s brother.

[60]

Creston Clark[e], the son of Asia Booth, relating his dramatic triumphs, and his success in the character of Hamlet especially. He belongs she said to Maryland, and shows in the third generation the striking genius of his kindred. She spoke of his mental and physical likeness to his mother's family, which was confirmed by a picture shown to us.

The next article on our programme was by Mrs. John D. [Maud Graham] Early, and was on “Alfred J. Miller,” the Artist.” It was read by Mrs. Manly. It spoke of Mr. [Alfred Jacob] Miller as the first artist produced in Baltimore, so far as known. It dwelt on his pictures of the North American Indians, and told of his opportunities for studying that race on their native heaths, in what was then the Wild West;--opportunities impossible to gain now, and which were most fortunately given to Mr. Miller, and appreciated by him. Some of his pictures are owned by Mr. [William] Walters and by others in this city, and they increase in value as time goes on. We were given the newspaper notice of July 3rd, 1874, recording Mr. Miller’s death, in the 65th year of his age. His father was at the bombardment of Fort McHenry. At eighteen Mr. Miller painted his first historical picture, the murder of Jane McCrea. He was a pupil of [Thomas] Sully in Philadelphia, and afterward studied abroad. At the Louvre he painted without restriction, and was called in Paris, the first American Copyist. He was some time in Rome, and made excursions through Italy, before coming back to Baltimore. Sir William Drummond Stewart, a Scotchman, who had fought at Waterloo, who was in 1837

[61]

about to travel in Canada and the North West, invited Mr. Miller to join the expedition, and to make illustrations of it. They started from St. Louis, then thought to be far West, and they brought back at last pictures of wild Indians and wild scenery of great value. The same generous friend invited the artist to come to Scotland, and gave him princely entertainment there. Cardinal [Nicholas] Wiseman, we were told, found in one of Mr. Miller’s pictures a text for one of his lectures. Mr. Miller painted pictures of various kinds, but the Indian ones have been most valued. For a long time he sent one of three every year to Sir William Stewart. We were told of some of Mr. Miller’s pupils, whose names are well known in Baltimore. Also that he had left a kind and pleasant memory of his personality among us.

Some of Mr. Miller’s pictures had been lent to the Club, to adorn the walls of our meeting room on this occasion--most of them representing “the noble red man.”

The next article of our programme was the Presentation of a Bust of Edgar A. [Allan] Poe to the Club from Mrs. John D. Early. Miss Mary [E.] Evans had been requested by Mrs. Early to present the Medallion for her to the Club, also to say something about the poet whom it represents. Miss Evans told us that Mrs. Early’s gift which would hold an honored place in our meeting room, was the work of Mr. R. B. Goddard, and that the likeness from which it was taken belonged to Miss Amelia Poe, who was present with us as a guest on this evening. Of Edgar Allan Poe

[62]

himself, she reminded us that an unfriendly critic had once said, “Write it rather Edgar--a poet, and then it is right to a t.” She spoke of the work that has been tried by time, of the art and beauty that gains higher appreciation everywhere as time goes on. She spoke of the detractors of the poet, and of some of those who have written about him who seem to have drawn upon their imaginations for their facts. She spoke of talking to an intelligent woman who seems to have expressed intelligent opinions, until the name of Poe was mentioned, when she said “Oh he is too morbid for me.--have you read Miss Toucey’s Mission?” “And I” said Miss Evans “took up my tin dishes and doll clothes, and went home.” “We must seek, she said, “for Poe’s true life in the works of his brain.” She read to us the poem “To one in Paradise,” and asked if there was anything morbid in that? She then spoke of Poe’s criticisms, in which she said he was honest, really served true art, and had the courage of his convictions. Miss Evans then read some extracts from these almost inimitable criticisms with full appreciation of their wit, humor and satire.[^Poe]

[^Poe]: Poe's best-known work of literary criticism is his 1846 essay "The Philosophy of Composition," published in _Graham's Magazine_, which established the importance of achieving a "unity of effect" in a literary work that was achieved through craft, not spontaneous . 

The next article on the programme was the Recitation of the “Star-Spangled Banner” by Miss Martha Ford, who had consented to give it to us, and who was known to have given the same patriotic recitation at the Exposition at Chicago.[^Chicago] Two handsome flags, a Star-Spangled Banner and a Maryland Flag had been brought to us on this evening by the Colonel of the Fifth Maryland Regiment, to whom thanks were voted for

[^Chicago]: The World Columbian Exposition had been held in Chicago the previous year, in 1893, with representation of the WLCB in the Woman's Library in the Woman's Building. See note in minutes for Nov. 29, 1892 meeting.

[63]

the favor. At the close of Miss Ford’s recitation, the applause was so long continued and earnest, that the reciter was led back to the platform by Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton our Second Vice President. Miss Ford said she could not give us another recitation, but she would give us a quotation from Shakespeare. She gave us the speech of Portia, “The quality of mercy is not strained etc,”[^Portia] with appropriate grace and expression.

[^Portia]: _Merchant of Venice_, Act IV, Scene 1.

The programme being concluded, the President said that having expressed our pleasure for the entertainment given us, we should also express our gratitude to all of those friends who had lent us the superb embroidered vestments and other draperies and ornaments which had adorned the meeting of February 6th. She proposed the appointment of a Committee to draft resolutions of thanks to be sent by the Corresponding Secretary, in the name of the Club, to Cardinal Gibbons, Mr. Powell, Rabbi Guttmacher, Mr. Smith and all the other generous contributors to the success of our exhibition on the evening mentioned. Miss Malloy, Miss [Mary F.] Grace, and the President herself were named as this committee.

The President then by request, gave some of her own recollections of the performances in the old Baltimore Museum--a building which some of us can well recollect on Baltimore Street, a good many years ago.[^Peale] She told of the playing of the elder Booth there, of the Baltimore actor [John E.] Owens, of a picture by Mr. [Alfred Jacob] Miller, which hung there, of the playing of Joseph Jefferson and Mrs. [Jane] Germon who always

[64]

seemed to take their audience into their confidence,--and other entertaining recollections.

A vote of thanks was given to Mrs. Early for the gift of the medallion of Poe. Miss Malloy read the draft of the resolutions to be sent, returning thanks to the loan of the vestments, ecclesiastical embroidery, symbolical ornaments etc., sent to us on February 6th, which resolution was approved.

The meeting was adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)