---
title: 1894-01-30 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1894-01-30-meeting.html
season: fourth
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[45]

## 99th Meeting. January 30th, 1894.

The 99th meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, January 30th, 1894, at the corner of Franklin and Cathedral streets. The President, Miss Brent [Emma Fenwick] Brent, called the meeting to order, and the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the two meetings of January 16th and January 23rd.

The announcements were made of the resignations of Mrs. [Mrs. W. H.] Anderson, of Miss [Mabel] Carter and of Miss Sally [K.] Carter. It was also announced that Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock had been elected Corresponding Secretary of the Club, that Mrs. [Letitia Humphreys Yonge] Wrenshall had been elected a member of the Executive Committee; that Mrs. [Marguerite E.] Easter had been appointed as the assistant of Mrs. [Maria W.] Miller, the librarian of the Club, and that Miss [Lucy] Comins had been appointed Chairman of the Committee on Art. The announcement of the subject in the next meeting as Decorative Art, was made. The meeting about to be held was devoted to music,--a musical programme having been prepared for it by some of the members of the Club.

The first exercise of the evening consisted of three pieces,--piano-solos--given by Mrs. Samuel Tracy Brown, who had kindly consented to play for us. They were: “A Gavotte” by Bach, “A Minuet” by Beethoven, and the Troitrice Fahrt, by Tchaikovski [Peter Tchaikovsky]: of course played with great power, grace and expression. Miss [Lizette Woodworth] Reese, who was expected to sing for us, was prevented from being present by illness. We next

[46]

enjoyed the singing of Miss Reiba Thélin. Her song was: “A Summer Night,” by A. Young Thomas. Mrs. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord then sang for us; “A Faded Violet,” by Albert Robert. She also favored us with her song: “My Ladye,” the words being by Mrs. Lord herself, and the Music by F. W. Wolf. We again had the pleasure of hearing Miss Thélin sing, her second song being: “A Winter Lullaby,” By De Koren. In both songs she was accompanied by Mrs. Mealy [Mrs. John W. Mealey]. Mrs. Sidney [Clara B. Newman] Turner was then requested to sing, and consented to do so. She gave us two songs: the first was Sidney Lanier’s well known “Song of the Trees”; “Into the Woods, My Master went” etc. with Mrs. Turner’s own music.

Of the second, the words were by Emily Dickinson;--”If I can save one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain,” etc. and both were sung with time and loving expression.[^Dickinson] Two of the articles of the programme, were unavoidably omitted. An earnest request was made to Miss [Louisa Courtland Osburne] Haughton to sing for us, and she agreed to the request of her fellow members, and sang two songs, accompanied by Miss Cloud [Virginia Woodwaord] Cloud]. The first was “I Promise Me,” by De Koren, and the second was, “Alas how often things go wrong” by Millard.

[^Dickinson]: Dickinson's first volume of poetry was published in 1890.

Miss [Lucy] Comins then read to us some extracts from a review of George Upton’s book on “Woman and Music.” In this book, attention is drawn to the small achievement of Women in the composition of music. We were reminded that in musical composition, no woman can yet stand

[47]

where Rosa Bonheur or George Eliot[t] or Mrs. [Elizabeth Barrett] Browning do stand in other departments of creative art or discovery. The writer spoke of Music as the expression of our emotions, and suggested that a woman’s emotions are so truly a part of herself that she cannot cooly and regularly image them in the form of musical construction. Men, the author supposes to have their emotions more under control, and to be much more willing to wait for success, in art, and to endure rebuffs before attaining it than women are. But he went on to say, that in the interpretation of music by the voice, woman is almost pre-eminent, and here seems to be her most excellent department in music.

Some discussion arose after this reading. Some members failed to see that men can control themselves much better than women can, and spoke of the aversion some men show to cats, perhaps to other innocent objects.

The meeting adjourned.
<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 4. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Afourth)