---
title: 1890-05-06 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-05-06-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

## 1st Salon--May 6th 1890.

### 1st Salon; Altamont Hotel

The first Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday, May 6th, at four o’clock, in private parlors of the Altamont Hotel. The meeting was a social one and quite informal. There were about thirty members present who were received by the President and other Officers.

### Paper by Mrs. Franklin

An interesting paper was read by Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin], Treasurer of the Club, on ‘Some objections to Prof. Newcome’s opinion of Bellamy’s “Looking Backward.”’

### Discussion on Socialism

This article was followed by the discussion of Socialism by Mrs. Franklin and Miss [Henrietta] Szold, which was both pleasant and instructive.

By the suggestion of the President, the Club was divided into several parties for debate and conversation.

### Poem by Mrs. Caskin

During the afternoon an original humorous poem in the style of Oscar Wilde, on “The Woman of the Period,” was read by Mrs. [Theodore] Caskin and received with applause.

### Music by Miss M. Mason

Miss Miriam Mason contributed much to the pleasure of the Salon by two charming piano selections. The meeting adjourned about six o’clock.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)