---
title: 1890-06-03 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-06-03-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[10]

## 3d Salon--June 3d 1890.

### 3d Salon Altamont Hotel

The third Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday, June 3d, at four o’clock, in private parlors of the Altamont Hotel. In the absence of the President, the meeting was called to order by the 1st Vice President--Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey.

### Committees on Art & Drama suggested. Committee on Music. Board meeting. New members voted in. Eminent Women to be first Committee in Autumn

The minutes of the last meeting were read and the “Schedule for Summer Work” was brought forward, when the addition of Committees on “Art” and the “Drama” was suggested, and the Committee on “Music as a Science etc” was formed, with Miss May [Garrettson] Evans, Chairman. Being the last meeting of the Summer, the Board of Management with 7 members present was called together, when new members were voted into the Club, and it was decided that the Committee on “Eminent Women” with Miss Emma [Fenwick] Brent, Chairman, shall take charge of the literary entertainment at the next general meeting to be held on the 1st Tuesday of October.

### Verses read

Verses were then read to the Club: by Miss Cloud [Virginia Woodward Cloud] “In a Rose Jar”--original, and “Her eyes are like the violet” written by Miss Lizette Woodworth Reese; and by Mrs. Dobbin “Foiled Aspirations”--original.

The Salon adjourned having had about 14 members present.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)