---
title: 1890-05-13 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-05-13-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

[7]  

## 4th General Meeting May 13th 1890

### 4th Meeting 18 E. Madison St.

The fourth general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore took place on Tuesday afternoon May 13th, at four o’clock in the parlors of number 18 East Madison Street. The meeting was called to order by the President, and the minutes of the 1st Salon were read.

### Miss Grace’s paper on Salon--Mankind and Makers

Miss [Mary F.] Grace read a paper on “The Mankind of the Salon and Salon Makers." Paris was named as the home of the Salon, esprit and repartee as its life, conversation its aim and end, as sense of freedom the great attraction to its members, and exquisite tact and versatility the requisites of its leaders such as Madames Recamier and Rambouillet.

### Her suggestion

Can we not try to make the Salon indigenous to ourselves? Mrs. [Li] Goddard’s paper also on the “Salon” was read by Miss [Florence] Baily. The Salon was always presided over by a woman--argument and thought were ever important, music was used--literature, art, fashion, politics discussed and a club room absolutely needed.

### Mrs. Graham on Women’s Congress

A note of congratulation was read from the Woman’s Club of Denver. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham Vice President of the Women’s Congress' invited membership, stated the aim of the association, its dues and privileges.

### Mrs. Turnbull on Lanier’s “Psalm of the West"

Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull then read a paper on Sidney Lanier’s “Psalm of the West,” citing many beautiful passages, glancing at our national history from chaos through the Norsemen, the noble Columbus, and our various wars to our present great prosperity--speaking of the lifting up of the individual _Self_ in man, his intellectual growth through freedom and love, until we see a glimpse of him as he should be--self-possessed yet humble, looking up to God--the Catholic man.[^Turnbull]

[^Turnbull]: Turnbull published a novel titled _The Catholic Man_, a novelistic treatment of Sidney Lanier, in 1890. The presentation referred to here may very well have been a précis of the novel.

### Mrs. Collyer on Literary Association of Dubuque

Mrs. Collyer spoke to the meeting of the Literary Association of Women of Dubuque, Iowa--its methods--is management--its age (founded 1857); after which the Club adjourned.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)