---
title: 1890-05-20 Salon Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-05-20-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[8]

## 2nd Salon--May 20th 1890

### 2nd Salon Altamont Hotel

The second Salon of the Woman’s Literary Club was held on Tuesday, May 20th, at four o’clock in [the] private parlor of the Altamont Hotel. The order of the proceedings was changed and the meeting called to business.

### Committees. Chairmen. The Brownings of the Lake Poets added.

The President suggested that Committees be formed for the coming winter’s work, and formed at once so that the summer’s leisure might be utilized. The plan was adopted and various Committees were named and several Chairmen appointed. By special suggestion, “The Brownings and The Lake Poets” were added to the division of Poetry. Mrs. Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] announced to the Club that women had been invited by Johns Hopkins University professor to two geological excursions and to a lecture on geology.

### Poem[s] “The Poet’s Answer”, “In the Woods”

Two original poems were read during the afternoon: “The Poet’s Answer” by Miss Miriam Mason, and “In the Woods” by Mrs. Charles W. Lord [Alice Emma Sauerwein Lord]. Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham moved that the Club be adjourned for the summer two weeks from that evening, which was carried. The meeting adjourned, having had about 30 members present.

E. Ridgely
Secretary[^BOM]

[^BOM]: Board of Managers meeting minutes follow the minutes from the Salon held on May 20, 1890. Minutes from regular Club meetings and the Board of Managers were included together in the same volumes during the first two years of the Club's existence (the first volume of the minutes books). They have been separated on this website for ease of navigation and clarity.

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)