---
title: 1890-04-22 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-04-22-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>
[4]

## 2nd General Meeting--April 22nd 1890

### 2nd Meeting Albion Hotel

The second general meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Tuesday afternoon April 22nd at four o’clock in a private parlor of the Albion Hotel.

### President’s address

Mrs. Lawrence [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull [Francese Litchfield Turnbull] President of the association opened the meeting with a brief address explaining the “lines upon which we expect to work” and presenting more definitely than had been previously done, the aims and objects of the Club, not the least important of which will be, if I may (quote) Mrs. Turnbull’s words, “to encourage exact and noble thinking among our women, hoping to prove that added strength will cultivate larger grace of speech and manner, keener instincts of pure womanliness, a deeper appreciation of the precious opportunities of the home life with a truer comprehension of its responsibilities--a broader and not less loving and believing heart.[”]

### Constitution submitted

At the close of the President’s address Mrs. Mary Spear Tiernan, Chairman of the Executive Committee, submitted the Constitution which was discussed and voted upon clause by clause--[^vote]

[^vote]: A copy of the Club’s original constitution has not been located. The constitution ratified in 1893-1894 was published in 1900 as a pamphlet that is included in the WLCB collection at the Maryland Center for History and Culture and transcribed on the [WLCB website](http://loyolanotredamelib.org/Aperio/WLCB/wlcb-constitution)

### Amendment of Section 5 of Article 2nd 

Each section of Articles 1st and 2nd were carried unanimously to the 5th section of Article 2nd when Mrs. Henry Stockbridge [Fanny Eliza Montague Stockbridge] proposed the amendment that the Secretary be appointed custodian of the official documents of the Club which was voted upon and carried--Article 3rd was adopted without alteration.

### Discussion on Sec[tion] 5, Art[icle] 4th_

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Article 4th were unanimously carried. Objections were taken to Section 5th of Article 4th relating to “the suppression of the liberty of the press." Animated discussion followed the reading of this clause. Miss Henrietta Szold proposed that the word “license” by substituted for “liberty."

[5]

Miss Eliza Ridgely thought it a pity for the organization of women to protest against the press since it has done so much good.

Miss [Hester Crawford] Dorsey suggested that it was not the “press,” but some of its abuses against which we would protest. Mrs. Turnbull then stated very clearly that while recognizing the value and good of the press we are opposed to the publicity given to the privacy of the home life.

Miss Miriam Mason suggested that the proceedings of such an organization which is of a public character could not apply to private life.

### Discussion closed

The discussion was finally closed by Mrs. Henry Stockbridge who proposed the clause by amended to read as follows[:] “No reports of the meetings shall be given to the press without approval of the officers.[”]

### Election of Secretary

The further reading of the Constitution was then postponed and the election of a secretary followed resulting in the unanimous election of Miss Eliza Ridgely to the office. 

### Election of 2 members of Executive Committee

A vote by ballot was then taken for the election of two members to the Executive Committee to supply vacancies--Mrs. Alan P. Smith [Emily Anna Smith] and Miss Emma [Fenwick] Brent were elected.

Miss H. C. [Hester Crawford] Dorsey secretary pro tem., then recorded the names of the ladies who signified their desire to join the Club.

The meeting then adjourned to meet two weeks from that day.

(Taken from Miss H. C. Dorsey’s Minutes by E Ridgely)

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)