---
title: 1890-05-27 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-05-27-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

[9]
## 5th General Meeting--May 27th 1890.

### 5th Meeting Altamont Hotel

The fifth meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club took place on Tuesday, May 27th, at 4 o’clock, in private parlors of the Altamont Hotel. The meeting was called to order by the President, and the minutes of the last literary meeting were read.

### New Members announced, read and proposed. Schedule of Summer Work. “Sunrise” read. Sidney Lanier. President's paper on Sidney Lanier

New members’ names were announced, and others proposed for membership, after which the Schedule of Summer Work was read. Sidney Lanier was the literary subject of the afternoon, and Miss Virginia [Woodward] Cloud read his beautiful poem “Sunrise.” Mrs. [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull gave an original article, “seeking to present his personality to those who had not known him.” He believed in the beauty of holiness and the holiness of beauty, in the importance of the individual; his poetry is full of music and may be called of the neo-Hellenic--Hebraic type. His art life was short. Of him it was rightly said that he was “his own best poem”--“Sure of the father, self, and Love alone.”

### Some of Lanier’s poems read

By Mrs. Turnbull’s request, Miss Cloud read the beautiful love song “In the Heart of the Hills of Life,” and she read also the “Ballad of the Trees and the Master." Mrs. Theodore Caskin asked for “Corn” which was read in part by Mrs. Turnbull, and Mrs. [Elizabeth Turner] Graham read “Barnacles."

### Vote of thanks to President; Last literary meeting of season

After the literary exercises a vote of thanks to the President was passed by the Club, and the last literary meeting of the Season closed.

Eliza Ridgely
Secretary

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 

[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)