---
title: 1890-03-19 Meeting Minutes
layout: page
permalink: /1890-03-19-minutes.html
season: inaugural
---

<style>
    #maincontent{
        font-size:1.4em;
    }
</style>

[1] 

## The Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore
## Book of Minutes 
## 1st Meeting, March 19th 1890.

[2]

### 1st Meeting, Woman’s College.[^loc]

[^loc]: Marginal subheadings are included in-text throughout the 1890-1891 and 1891-1892 seasons.

The initial meeting of the Woman’s Literary Club of Baltimore was held on Wednesday afternoon, March 19th [18]90 at four o’clock in the President’s lecture room of the Woman’s College, the privilege of the room having been kindly extended by Dr. John F. Goucher and Dr. Hopkins president of the college.

There were between thirty and forty ladies present in response to notes of invitation from Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey[^Dorsey] to those interested in organizing a woman’s literary club in Baltimore--

[^Dorsey]: Hester Dorsey Crawford married Albert Richardson in 1891 and was subsequently referred to as Mrs. Richardson throughout the Club meeting minutes.

### Aims and Objects of Club

The meeting was called to order by Miss Dorsey who stated briefly her object in asking the ladies to assemble there. At her request Mrs. Fabian Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] then explained, in a few well chosen words, the aims and objects of the proposed association which would be to further greater intellectual development among the women of Baltimore and to promote social relations among those of similar tastes.

### Requisites of Admission

Interchange of opinion then followed as to the eligibility for membership in such a club, and it was the popular opinion that those only should belong who had sufficient interest in literature to have devoted some time and thought to original work for either newspapers and magazines or of a more lasting nature.

### Name

Letters of advice and congratulations from Mrs. Jenny June Croly and Mrs. Frank Leslie[^Croly] were read by Miss Dorsey. The appropriate name for the Club was then discussed--many names were suggested including “The Writer’s Club”, “Pen Club”, “Contemporary Women”, “The Nineteenth Century”, “The Literary League”, and “The Sphynx”--no one of

[^Croly]: “Jennie June” was the pseudonym of Jane Cunningham Croly (1829-1901), one of the first female syndicated news columnists in the US and founder of the first woman’s club, Sorosis, in New York City in 1869 and the General Federation of Woman’s Clubs in 1890. Miriam Florence Squier (1836-1914) was the editor of _Frank Leslie’s Lady’s Magazine_ and married the magazine’s publisher, Frank Leslie, after which she became widely known as "Mrs. Frank Leslie." After her husband died in 1880, Leslie legally changed her name to Mrs. Frank Leslie and took over her husband’s numerous publications, turning them into immensely profitable concerns. A lavish entertainer and flamboyant celebrity figure, Leslie espoused suffrage and willed her fortune to suffrage activist Carrie Chapman Catt.

[3]

these was chosen and the matter was laid over.

### Election of Officers

Miss Dorsey was then asked to occupy the chair and the election of officers followed resulting in the unanimous election of Mrs. Lawrence [Francese Litchfield] Turnbull [Francese Litchfield Turnbull] for President, Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey Vice President, Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock Secretary and Mrs. Fabian Franklin [Christine Ladd-Franklin] Treasurer.


### Election of Executive Committee

The Executive Committee was then nominated and elected including Mrs. Henry Stockbridge Sr [Fanny Eliza Montague Stockbridge], Mrs. Mary Spear Tiernan, Mrs. Chas. W. [Alice Emma Sauerwein] Lord , Mrs. Henry P. [Li] Goddard and Miss Bond--Mrs. George [Louise Clarkson] Whitelock and Miss Bond subsequently declined serving.

### Board of Management

The Officers and executive committee were then appointed the Board of Management and authorized to meet together to draw up a Constitution and by-laws for the government of the Club. The meeting then adjourned.

Copied by Eliza Ridgely from Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey’s Minutes of above meeting

<hr>

##### Transcribed document held at the [Maryland Center for History and Culture](http://mdhs.org/), Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore Collection, MS 988, Box 3. 


[Return to meeting minutes](https://elizajames.github.io/WLCB_draft/search/index.html?q=%2Bseason%3Ainaugural)